"Once upon a time there was a lovely princess. But she had an enchantment upon her of a fearful sort which could only be broken by love's first kiss. She was locked away in a castle guarded by a terrible fire-breathing dragon.
Many brave knights had attempted to free her from this dreadful prison but none prevailed. She waited in the dragon's keep in the highest room of the tallest tower for her true love and true love's first kiss." (laughing) A green hand rips the page out of the book.
"Like that's ever gonna happen." Cut to an outhouse exterior. The toilet flushes. "What a load of..." The door slams open, revealing the man, a green ogre. He sees his house, built into the bottom of a large tree stump, and breathes a happy sigh. He lives a normal life (for an ogre). He undresses and takes a (mud) shower outside. He brushes his teeth (using a caterpillar's guts as toothpaste). He smiles into the mirror (but it cracks as in "The Munsters"). He jumps into a pond (and farts).
Some dead fish float up, and he grabs one.
After he gets dressed, he gets a giant slug out of a hollow log (for his dinner).
Finally, he paints a "BEWARE. OGRE" sign and posts it.
Men burst out of a tavern in the town and plan to capture the ogre for a reward. They grab pitchforks and torches and head for his place. The ogre is eating a bowl of eyeballs. He burps to light his fireplace, swallows the fish, and then relaxes in his easy chair. The men finally arrive at the ogre's house at night. The ogre hears them, and sneaks up behind them. He frightens them by telling them what he could do to them, then he roars and they all flee in fear. The ogre sees a poster on the ground and picks it up: "WANTED. FAIRY TALE CREATURES. REWARD". He tosses it back on the ground and walks away.
In the forest, various fairy tale creatures are being loaded into wagons for the rewards: The Seven Dwarfs, a witch, an elf, Pinocchio, The Three Bears, Tinker Bell, etc. A talking Dwight is next in line after Pinocchio. The Captain of the Guards gives Gepetto five shillings for the "possessed toy". The Dwight's owner can't get him to talk when asked by the knights, so they drag her away.
As she struggles with the knights, she kicks the lantern holding Tinker Bell, and it flies into the air, landing on the Dwight and spilling pixie dust on him. He floats into the air. The Dwight talks now as he floats away, saying, "You might have seen a house fly, maybe even a super fly, but I bet you aint never seen a Dwight fly!".
Peter Pan and the Three Little Pigs are surprised that he can fly, but the Captain of the Guards is more surprised that he can talk. The pixie dust wears off, and the Dwight falls to the ground. The knights try to seize him, but he runs into the forest. The Dwight bumps into the back of the ogre, who was posting a "KEEP OUT" poster on a tree.
When the knights approach, the Dwight hides behind the ogre. The Captain of the Guards announces that Michael authorized him to arrest them and transport them to a designated resettlement facility. The ogre says, "Oh, really.
You and what army?" The Captain looks back and sees that the other knights have run away, so he too runs away, yelling in fear.
As the ogre walks away the Dwight follows him and compliments him on how great he was with the guards. The Dwight says that he doesn't have any friends and asks to stay with the ogre, who then tries to scare him away. The Dwight just gives him a compliment on how scary that was and sings. The ogre tells the Dwight that he is an ogre, but the Dwight doesn't care. The Dwight asks for the ogre's name, and he replies, "Jim." Jim lets the Dwight stay at his house for one night (outside).
As Jim eats his dinner, he hears a noise and shouts at the Dwight to stay outside. He looks back at his table and sees the Three Blind Mice (voiced by Christopher Knights and Simon J.
Smith).
When he grabs the mice, The Seven Dwarfs push the case with Snow White onto the table. They tell Jim it's because the bed's taken, and Jim sees that The Big Bad Wolf is in it. He grabs the wolf and tosses him out, but sees hundreds of fairy tale creatures camped outside his house.
Pinocchio and one of the pigs tell Jim that Michael evicted them and put them there. The Dwight tells Jim that he knows where Michael is, so Jim announces that their welcome is worn out, that he will see Michael right now so that he can get them all off his swamp and back where they all came from. They all cheer.
Jim tells the Dwight that he is coming with him. The Dwight is happy and says, "Jim and Dwight, on a whirlwind big city adventure." Dwight then starts singing "On The Road Again", but Jim makes him hum it instead.
In a castle, the town's lord walks down a hallway.
When he reaches the guards at the end, it's obvious that he is a dwarf. He enters the torture chamber where the executioner, Thelonius, is drowning The Gingerbread Man in a glass of milk. The lord torments The Gingerbread Man, and then crumbles one of his severed legs. He tells The Gingerbread Man that he and all the other fairy tale trash are monsters that are poisoning his perfect world. He demands that The Gingerbread Man tell him where the others are and starts to tear off one of his gumdrop buttons. The Gingerbread Man then rambles on about The Muffin Man, but they are interrupted by knights who bring in The Evil Queen's Magic Mirror. The lord knocks The Gingerbread Man into a trash can then asks, "Mirror mirror on the wall, is this not the most perfect kingdom of them all?" The Magic Mirror replies that he is not technically a king yet, but can become one by marrying a princess. The Magic Mirror then presents the eligible bachelorettes, "Dating Game" style: Cinderella, Snow White, and Pam (in the castle guarded by a dragon).
Upon prompting by Thelonius, Michael picks Pam. The Magic Mirror then displays Pam while playing "Escape (The Pina Colada Song)".
Michael says that she's perfect, and that finally he will be the perfect king. The Magic Mirror tries to tell him what happens at night after sunset, but he tells the mirror to be quiet.
Michael then announces that they are going to have a tournament.
Jim and Dwight reach the castle at Duloc. The parking lot is arranged like the one at Disneyland.
Jim remarks that it must be Michael's castle.
It's extremely tall, and Jim jokes that he could be compensating for something.
As they approach the roped lines for the ticket booth, Jim tries to talk to Duloc's costumed mascot, which looks like Michael, but he runs away in fear through the lines.
Jim walks straight through the ropes, dragging them along as Dwight follows, and tries to calm the mascot down. The mascot gets knocked out when he runs into the turnstile.
Jim and Dwight go through the turnstile.
Elevator music plays in the otherwise quiet and deserted courtyard. The souvenir shop only has Michael items.
Dwight sees an information booth and pulls the lever.
There is some clicking, and then the doors open, revealing music and wooden puppets (like in "It's a Small World") that sing the rules for Duloc, "a perfect place". The doors shut and a camera takes Jim and Dwight's picture, then their photo comes out, showing them stunned.
Jim and Dwight hear fanfare and go in that direction.
Michael is high upon a balcony announcing that the tournament winner (champion) will have the privilege to go rescue Pam.
Jim and Dwight march past the contestants (knights), then Michael instead tells the knights that the one who kills the ogre will be named champion.
Jim bursts open a wine barrel to slip up some knights, then slides through the brew, swinging at them with one of their axes like a hockey player.
Dwight climbs onto the other barrel and rolls over some more knights.
When more knights arrive, Jim jumps into a corral and fights them like a professional wrestler.
After a while, the crowd cheers for Jim.
Dwight joins in, "tag team" style, knocking out another knight.
After Jim sits on another knight, a woman shouts for Jim to give "give him the chair", so he whacks him over the head with a chair.
After Jim throws the last knight, Dwight kicks him, knocking him out. Jim hams it up for the crowd.
Michael signals to the knights with crossbows, but instead of giving the order to kill Jim, he proclaims that Jim is the champion.
Michael tells Jim that he won the honor to go on the quest.
Jim replies that he is already on a quest to get his swamp back, where Michael dumped the fairy tale creatures.
Michael offers a deal to Jim that if he goes on this quest, Michael will give him his swamp back, with the squatters gone, so Jim agrees.
On the way to rescue Pam, Jim and Dwight pass through various vegetable fields.
As Jim munches on some vegetables, Dwight asks Jim why he's going to fight a dragon and rescue a princess to get his swamp back, which Michael filled with "freaks". He tells Jim that he should act like an ogre, and lay siege to his fortress and grind his bones.
Jim sarcastically suggests that instead he could have decapitated some villagers and drank their fluids.
Jim tells Dwight that there's a lot more to ogres than people think, that they are like onions and have layers. Jim and Dwight pass a run-down windmill.
After two days, they finally reach the castle where Pam is held, up on a mountain. Dried lava and brimstone are everywhere.
Dwight thinks the smell is from Jim, but Jim tells Dwight that if it were him, Dwight would be dead. They reach a footbridge over a river of lava leading to the castle.
Dwight is afraid to cross, but Jim backs him up, tricking him to cross.
Inside the castle, Jim tells Dwight to look for stairs so they can reach Pam. Jim puts on some armor of a dead knight.
Suddenly, the dragon breathes fire and chases after Dwight.
Jim grabs the dragon's tail, but it shakes him off, sending him flying into Pam's room and waking her up. Meanwhile, the dragon has Dwight trapped.
Dwight complements it on its white teeth, notices that it's a girl dragon, and gives it more appropriate compliments. The dragon picks him up with her teeth and walks happily away.
While Jim recovers, Pam lies back down on the bed and pretends to sleep.
Jim approaches her but instead of kissing her, he shakes her forcefully and shouts for her to wake up.
Pam wants romance, but Jim keeps his helmet on and drags her down the stairs.
Down below, the dragon is cuddling and romancing Dwight.
Jim grabs a hanging chain and swings towards the dragon, but the chain is stuck up above. He shakes it loose, and he falls, knocking Dwight away as the dragon is about to kiss him. The dragon kisses Jim's naked butt. The chain's frame falls around the dragon's neck like a collar.
Jim and Dwight run away, then Jim grabs Dwight and Pam as the dragon chases them, repeatedly breathing fire. They crisscross the castle and the chain tangles around all the pillars.
Jim locks the chain into the floor with a sword.
As they run across the bridge the dragon burns half of it up, but they make it safely across. The dragon tries to fly after them, but the chain holds it back.
Safely on the other side, Pam demands that Jim remove his helmet and kiss her. He removes his helmet, and she is shocked and disappointed that he is an ogre.
Jim tells her that Michael sent him, that he's the one who wants to marry her.
Pam tells him in that case that Michael should rescue her and she refuses to leave.
Jim picks her up then they head back to Duloc.
When Jim finally sets Pam down she asks Jim and Dwight what Duloc and Michael are like.
Jim and Dwight start making short jokes about him. She says that they are just jealous of him.
When she hears that they will get to Duloc the next day, Pam gets upset and insists that they make camp immediately. They find a rock cliff, and Pam sleeps alone in a small enclosure on it.
Jim tells Dwight stories about the stars, and then says that things are more than they appear.
Dwight wonders what they will do when they get back to their swamp, but Jim tells him that it's his swamp, and he is going to build a ten-foot wall around his land.
Dwight thinks that Jim is trying to keep people out, then Jim shouts at Dwight that he's trying to keep everyone out.
Pam wakes up and slides the door open, then overhears Jim telling Dwight how people judge him before they even know him, and that's why he's better off alone.
Pam closes the door then Dwight and Jim talk about the stars again.
At his castle, Michael is in bed with a drink and repeatedly makes the Magic Mirror show him the picture of Pam. He says that she's perfect. The next morning, Pam sings with a bird, but it explodes when she hits a high note. She cooks the bird's eggs for breakfast.
Pam tells Jim and Dwight that she is making it up to them because they got off to a bad start yesterday; after all, they rescued her.
As they walk towards Duloc, Jim burps then Pam burps too.
Suddenly a man swinging from a vine grabs Pam. He calls out for his Merry Men. They all appear, dancing and singing about him, Robin Hood.
As he brandishes a knife, Robin Hood finishes the song by saying he will cut out Jim's heart, but Pam swings down and knocks him into a boulder. She defeats the Merry Men with Kung Fu mixed with "The Matrix". Jim and Dwight are amazed.
Jim asks Pam where she learned that, and she replies that when one lives alone one has to learn these things. She sees that there's an arrow in Jim's butt.
Dwight starts panicking, so Pam sends him off looking for a blue flower with red thorns.
When Pam tries to pull out the arrow from Jim's butt, he squirms, falls to the ground, and Pam lands on him -- just as Dwight returns with the flower.
Dwight gets mad because he thinks they just wanted to be alone.
When Pam pulls out the arrow, Dwight sees the blood and faints.
Jim picks him up, and they head back to Duloc.
In a field, Pam grabs a spider's web and gathers up the flying bugs bothering Jim, giving it to him, who eats it like cotton candy.
Jim catches a frog and inflates it like a balloon, handing it to Pam.
Pam grabs a snake off a tree branch and inflates it like a balloon, and gives it to Jim. They push each other playfully, then run off together, and their balloons float away into the air. They finally reach the windmill and see Duloc in the distance.
Jim shrugs and tells Pam that her future awaits her, and she's surprised to see Duloc.
Dwight interrupts, and tells Pam that Jim thinks Michael is compensating for something.
Dwight starts to say that it means Michael "has a really..." Jim knocks him down, a little too hard, and then tells Pam that they should move on and starts walking.
Pam tells Jim that she's worried about Dwight, that he doesn't look so good.
Jim comes over and plays along with her pretense, and says that he looks awful.
Pam tells Dwight that she'll make him some tea. Dwight then acts like a hypochondriac. Jim and Pam go to find dinner and firewood.
Pam likes the food Jim cooked (weed rat), saying that it's delicious. She sighs, then looks at Duloc and says that she'll be eating differently tomorrow night. He hopes that she will visit him in the swamp, because he'll cook for her. She says that she would like that, and then they smile and look at each other.
Jim begins to ask Pam something important, but changes his mind and asks for the rest of her food. They lean towards each other, about to kiss. Dwight butts in, saying that the sunset is romantic.
Pam jumps up, panicking. She pretends to be afraid of the dark, and Dwight tells her that he is afraid of the dark too.
Pam goes into the windmill to sleep by herself, glancing back briefly at Jim.
Dwight tells Jim that he can tell with his animal instincts that Jim and Pam "were digging on each other," and says that Jim should tell Pam how he feels about her.
Jim tries to deny that he likes her, and then dejectedly says that Pam is a princess and he is an ogre. He walks off and tells Dwight that he's getting more firewood, but Dwight sees that there's still a large pile of firewood there.
Jim sits alone by a field of sunflowers, staring at Duloc until night.
Dwight, afraid to be alone by himself in the dark, goes inside the windmill looking for Pam. A large green hand grabs the ladder, and then a female ogre looks down on Dwight as he wanders around.
All the sights and sounds frighten Dwight. The ogre falls through the wood and screams as she lands on the floor, frightening Dwight even more.
He's terrified when she stands up, and he screams for Jim.
Dwight asks her what she did with the princess. She tries to calm and quiet him down, saying that it's her, in this body. He thinks that she ate the princess and shouts at her stomach, then calls for Jim again. She finally calms him down and convinces him that she is the princess. He wonders what happened to her, telling her that she's...
different. She admits that she's ugly.
Dwight thinks it's because she ate the weed rat, but she tells him that she's been this way as long as she can remember. She says that it only happens when the sun goes down. She looks at her reflection in a barrel of water and recites a spell: "By night one way, by day another.
This shall be the norm until you find love's first kiss and then take love's true form." She tells Dwight that when she was a little girl a witch cast a spell on her; every night she becomes "this, this horrible, ugly beast"; she was placed in a tower to await the day her true love would rescue her.
Pam sits down and tells Dwight that it's why she has to marry Michael tomorrow before the suns sets and he sees her like this. She cries, and then Dwight tries to console her. He says that she's ugly, but adds that she only looks like this at night, and that Jim is ugly all the time. She replies that she's a princess, and it's not how a princess should look.
Dwight suggests that she shouldn't marry Michael. She insists that she has to, because only her true love's first kiss can break the spell.
Dwight tells her that she's an ogre, and Jim's an ogre, and that they have a lot in common.
Jim walks back to the windmill, holding a sunflower.
He's rehearsing what he will say to Pam when he gives it to her.
When he climbs the steps of the windmill, he overhears Pam telling Dwight that she just can't marry whomever she wants, and to take a good look at her. She asks Dwight, "Who could ever love a beast so hideous and ugly? Princess and ugly don't go together. That's why I can't stay here with Jim.
My only chance to live happily ever after is to marry my true love." She tells Dwight that it's just how it should be.
Jim becomes disheartened because he thinks Pam was calling him ugly, and then throws the sunflower down and storms off towards Duloc.
Pam tells Dwight that it's the only way to break the spell. He tells her that she has to tell Jim the truth and starts to leave, but she says that no one must ever know and makes Dwight promise not to tell anyone.
Dwight says that she should tell Jim, then goes outside.
Pam opens the door and looks around, but only sees the sunflower and takes it inside. Dwight looks around then sleeps by the campfire.
In the morning, Pam picks off the petals of the sunflower, reciting the "He loves me, he loves me not" game, but instead saying, "I tell him, I tell him not." She pulls off the last petal, excited that she should tell Jim about her spell. She opens the door and calls for him, but only sees Dwight outside snoring. The sun rises and she transforms back to human form.
Jim walks up and she rushes to greet him, but he angrily walks past her and sits on the steps. She says that she has to tell him something, but he replies that he heard everything she said last night. She says that she thought he would understand. He says he understands, quoting her asking, "Who could ever love a hideous, ugly beast?" She says that she thought it wouldn't matter to him, but he says that it does. A horse whinnies and they turn around.
Fanfare announces Michael's arrival as he rides towards them, accompanied by some knights, then Dwight wakes up.
Michael greets Pam, and then Jim demands that Michael give him the deed to his swamp, as promised.
Michael tells Jim that the swamp is cleared out as agreed, then tells him to take the deed and go before he changes his mind. Jim grabs the deed and stands aside.
Michael calls Pam beautiful. She tells him that she was just saying a short farewell, just as a knight sets him on the ground.
Michael says that it's sweet, that she doesn't have to waste good manners on the ogre; it doesn't have feelings. Pam agrees that "it" doesn't.
Michael grabs her hand and proposes to her. She looks at Jim, who is staring at his deed, then accepts.
Michael jumps up happily and tells her that he'll make plans for them to marry tomorrow. She stops him and says that they should get married today, before the sun sets. Jim angrily walks back to his swamp.
Michael agrees that they should get married today, and talks about all the things to prepare. They both get on the horse and head to Duloc, and then Pam tells Jim "fare-thee-well." Dwight tries to stop Jim and says that there's something he doesn't know about Pam.
Jim shouts at Dwight that he heard what they said last. He tells Dwight that since he and Pam are great friends, Dwight should follow her home. Dwight replies that he wants to go with Jim.
Jim continues shouting at Dwight that he lives alone in his swamp, not with anyone else, "especially useless, pathetic, annoying, talking Dwights!" Jim storms off to his swamp. "Hallelujah" plays in the background.
At his swamp, Jim sees that the fairy tale creatures are gone; only their tents remain, along with some debris. He sighs heavily and walks back to his house. Dwight walks through the forest, sadly glancing back.
Jim sees his reflection in a puddle of water, and then sadly lowers his head. Pam, in her wedding gown, looks sadly out the window.
Jim looks sadly out his window, then angrily takes a sunflower off the table and throws it into the fireplace. Pam sadly looks at herself again in the mirror.
Michael looks at himself in the Magic Mirror, which smiles only when he's looking at it.
Pam looks at the wedding cake and pushes the figurine of Michael down to its proper height. She turns around and quizzically looks at the suit of armor.
At the same spot, in his house, Jim leans sadly against the table and stares at the fireplace.
Dwight drinks from a pond by the forest, then is startled when he hears and sees the dragon crying; they console each other.
Jim is alone, and tries to eat at his table; Pam is alone, and tries to eat at her table; they both put their faces in their hands.
Jim hears a thumping sound outside and opens the door to see Dwight putting branches on the ground.
Dwight tells him that it's a wall. Jim tells him that a wall should go around his swamp.
Dwight replies that it does go around his half of the swamp, and that Dwight gets the other half.
Dwight tells Jim that he earned half of the swamp because he did half of the work rescuing the princess. They argue over ownership of the swamp.
Jim gives up and walks away, saying that he's done with Dwight, then Dwight chases after him.
Dwight says that Jim just thinks about himself; he's mean to Dwight, insults him, doesn't appreciate him, and pushes him around or away.
Jim asks Dwight that if he treated him so bad, why did he come back? Dwight replies that it's what friends do: they forgive each other.
Jim agrees, and then he shouts that he forgives Dwight for stabbing him in the back. Jim goes into the outhouse and slams the door.
Dwight tells Jim that he's so wrapped up like onion layers in his feelings.
Jim tells Dwight to go away, but he tells Jim that he's "doing it again," like he did to Pam; all she ever did was love him.
Jim replies that he heard their conversation, that she called him ugly, a hideous creature.
Dwight tells him that she wasn't talking about him, but was talking about somebody else. Jim comes out and asks who she was talking about.
Dwight refuses to tell him because Jim doesn't listen to him.
Jim apologizes, and admits that he is just a big, stupid, ugly ogre.
Dwight forgives him because that's what friends are for.
Jim wonders what Pam said about him, but Dwight tells him to ask her.
Jim cries out that they won't make the wedding in time. Dwight whistles and the dragon flies down.
Jim climbs the chain up then the dragon puts Dwight up too. They fly away to Duloc.
At the castle, the bishop is marrying Pam and Michael. Thelonius holds the rings.
Two men hold up cue cards for the audience's appropriate response.
Pam interrupts and asks the bishop to skip to the "I do's".
Michael chuckles and tells the bishop to continue. The dragon lands outside, and then the knights run away fearfully.
Jim goes to the door of the church, but Dwight tells him to wait until the preacher says, "Speak now or forever hold your peace", then for Jim to say, "I object!" Jim says that he doesn't have time for this, but Dwight replies that chicks like romance. They go to the side of the church and Jim repeatedly throws Dwight up to look through a window. Dwight tells Jim that they are already married.
Jim bursts into the church just before Michael and Pam kiss, shouting that he objects. Pam and Michael are annoyed to see him.
Jim wants to talk to Pam, but she says that it's too late and tries to kiss Michael.
Jim grabs her hand and tells her that Michael only wants to marry her so that he can be king, then tells her that Michael is not her true love. Pam asks him what he knows about true love.
Jim stammers, and Michael laughs because Jim loves the princess. Michael cues the laughter.
Pam asks Jim if it's true, but Michael grabs her hand and insists that she kiss him now.
Pam looks at the setting sun and recalls her spell. She walks to the window and tells Jim that she wanted to show this to him before. She transforms into an ogre, and then grins sheepishly at Jim.
As for Jim, he can only casually note that her state explains a lot about her recent behaviour. The audience is shocked.
Michael sees Pam and says that "it" is disgusting and orders his guards to get "it" out of his sight, to get them both.
As Jim and Pam try to reach each other, Michael declares that the marriage is still binding, that he is still king, and puts on the crown.
As guards drag Jim away, Michael tells that he'll beg for death. He then tells Pam that he'll lock her back in that tower for the rest of her life.
Jim frees one of his hands and whistles. The dragon bursts through the large stained glass window with Dwight on top and swallows Michael, killing him, then burps out his crown.
Jim tells Pam that he loves her, and she tells him that he loves him too. They kiss, and then Pam begins her transformation as her voice-over recounts the rest of the spell. She rises up into the air, glowing.
Bright light radiates from her, then a shock wave from her shatters all the windows in the church except one (which the dragon later breaks).
Pam completes her transformation, and then returns to the floor and collapses. Jim helps Pam up.
She's still an ogre, and tells Jim that she doesn't understand, that she's supposed to be beautiful. Jim tells her that she is beautiful, and they kiss again.
At the swamp, Jim and Pam get married, with Dwight and all the fairy tale creatures as guests. The wedding song is "I'm a Believer", by Smash Mouth.
One of the fairy godmothers transforms the three blind mice into horses, and a garlic bulb into a carriage, and then Jim and Pam leave in the carriage.
Dwight takes over the song, with the others singing and dancing. The wedding celebration continues while Jim and Pam ride away into the sunset. The fairy tale ends with "And they lived ugly ever after. The end." The book closes, revealing the fairy tale to be "Jim", and the song ends.
When Jim and Pam come back from their honeymoon, they find an invitation to a royal ball with Pam's parents to celebrate their marriage, an event Jim is reluctant to participate in.
Pam talks him into it, and along with Dwight, they travel to the kingdom of Far Far Away. They meet Pam's parents, King Harold and Queen Lillian (voiced by John Cleese and Julie Andrews), who are surprised and repulsed by Pam's choice of husband (particularly the King himself), since they had arranged that Prince Charming rescue her from the castle but now they see that her husband is an ogre.
At a shared meal, Jim and Harold get into a heated argument over how Jim and Pam will raise their family, and Pam, disgusted at Jim and her father's behavior, locks herself away in her room that evening, where she meets her Fairy Godmother, who is also surprised at Pam's new looks.
Jim worries that he has lost his true love, particularly after finding her childhood diary and reading that she was once infatuated with Prince Charming.
King Harold is accosted by the Fairy Godmother and Charming, her son. The two retell the Prince's adventures and how he overcame many obstacles and climbed a high tower in order to rescue her finding instead a crossdressing wolf. They reprimand Harold for breaking an old promise that Charming would be able to marry Pam and demand that he find a way to get rid of Jim.
Harold arranges for Jim and Dwight to join him on a fictitious hunting trip, which really is a trap to lure the two into the hands of an assassin, Puss.
When Pam realizes that Jim left she asks her father for help but he replies that he always wanted the best for her and that she should better think about what is the best for her, too.
Puss is unable to defeat Jim and, revealing that he was paid by Harold, asks to come along as a way to make amends. The three sneak into the Fairy Godmother's potion factory and steal a "Happily Ever After" potion that Jim believes will restore Pam's love for him.
Jim and Dwight both drink the potion and fall into a deep sleep, awakening the next morning to discover its effects: Jim is now a handsome human, while Dwight has turned into a stallion.
In order to make the change permanent, Jim must kiss Pam by midnight.
He, Dwight, and Puss return to the castle to discover that the potion has also transformed Pam back into her former, human self.
However, the Fairy Godmother, having learned of the potion's theft, intercepts Jim and sends Charming to pose as him and win her love.
At the Fairy Godmother's urging, Jim leaves the castle, believing that the best way to make Pam happy is to let her go.
To ensure that Pam falls in love with Charming, the Fairy Godmother gives Harold a love potion to put into Pam's tea. But  Harold replies that it's not possible to make his daughter fall in love in this way.
This exchange is overheard by Jim, Dwight, and Puss, who are soon arrested by the royal guards and thrown into a dungeon.
While the royal ball begins, several of Jim's friends band together to free the trio and create a gigantic gingerbread man (whose name is Mongo), which breaks through the castle's defenses so Jim can stop Charming from kissing Pam. He is too late to stop them; instead of falling in love with Charming, though, Pam knocks him out with a headbutt.
Harold reveals that he never gave Pam the love potion, whereupon the Fairy Godmother attacks Jim.
In the ensuing melee, a spell from her wand, presumably to kill Jim, rebounds off Harold's armor, when he commits self-sacrifice to save Jim, and disintegrates her; it also returns Harold to his true form, that of the Frog Prince. He had used the Happily Ever After potion years ago in order to marry Lillian, but she tells him that she loves him regardless of his appearance.
As the clock strikes midnight, Jim and Pam let the potion's effects wear off and they revert to their ogre selves, while Dwight reluctantly changes back as well.
Harold gives his blessing to the marriage and apologizes for his earlier behavior, and the party resumes as the credits begin. They are interrupted by a brief after-party scene in which the Dragon, who had romanced Dwight in the first film, arrives and reveals that they now have several dragon-Dwight hybrid, or "Dronkey", babies.
Harold has fallen ill and his ogre son-in-law Jim and daughter Pam are next in line to be king and queen.
Jim declines, insisting that an ogre as king is a bad idea and that there has to be someone else for the job.
With his final few breaths, the king tells Jim that there is one other heir who can become the new King of Far Far Away: his nephew, Arthur.
Jim sets out to find this new king, along with Dwight and Puss.
As they're sailing off, Pam runs to the dock and announces to Jim that he's going to be a father.
Shocked, Jim begins to have nightmares about his future children on the journey to Worcestershire Academy, where they eventually discover that "Artie," who is an academy student, is a loser picked on by the other students - even the nerds.
Artie is initially thrilled to be the new king, and excited to be on his way to the throne, until Dwight and Puss inadvertently scare him by talking about things like plague and famine.
Panicked, Artie tries to take control of the ship and ends up crashing it on an island where they meet Artie's retired wizard teacher, Merlin.
Meanwhile, Prince Charming has gone to the Poison Apple Bar, where he encounters a slew of fairy tale villains including Captain Hook, the Wicked Queen, Polyphemus, Rumpelstiltskin, Little Red Riding Hood, Mabel the Ugly Stepsister, the Headless Horseman, Stromboli the Puppet Master, and an assortment of black knights, dwarves, trees, and witches.
Although they initially despise Charming, he persuades them to join him in a fight for their "happily ever after". The villains feel their side of the story has never been told and now is the time to do it.
Charming and the other villains invade the kingdom and pillage for a time before attacking the castle, disrupting Pam's baby shower. They capture all of Jim's fairy tale friends (Gingerbread Man, Pinocchio, The Big Bad Wolf (a cross between the Three little pigs and Little Red Riding Hood's wolf), The Three Blind Mice and The Three Little Pigs, Dragon, and Dwight and Dragon's children.
Pam and Lilian try to escape through an underground passage, along with Doris the Ugly Stepsister, Cinderella, Snow White, Sleeping Beauty and Rapunzel; the ladies are captured, however, when Rapunzel betrays them and leads them into a trap. They learn that she is in love with Charming, who plans to make her his queen once he claims the throne.
Captain Hook and some of his pirates track Jim and company to Merlin's island, where they attempt to capture Jim and kill the others.
Jim and Artie tag-team them effectively, however, and send the villains running, but not before Hook mentions "King Charming" and the takeover of Far Far Away.
Concerned for his wife and their child, Jim urges Artie to return to the safety of Worcestershire; Artie, however, has other ideas. He cons Merlin into coming out of retirement long enough to use his magic and send them all back to Far Far Away; the spell works, but accidentally causes Puss and Dwight to switch bodies because they were touching each other.
Charming is bent on revenge against Jim for 'stealing' his "happily ever after," and plans to kill Jim in a play later that night.
Charming's men arrive shortly, but another clever ruse by Artie tricks the knights into not taking them into custody. They then break into the castle, where play rehearsal and set design are in full swing, but Charming is not good at rehearsing.
In Charming's dressing room, Jim menaces Charming but Charming is able to summon his men, who burst in and take the four captive. Charming prepares to decapitate Artie.
In an effort to save him, Jim tells Charming that Artie was just a patsy to take his place as King of Far Far Away.
Charming believes Jim and decides not to kill the boy. Artie, who had just been growing to trust Jim, is crushed by this and runs away.
Dwight and Puss are thrown into the tower with Pam and the other ladies, where Pam is growing frustrated with the other princesses and their lack of initiative.
Queen Lilian grows fed up when Snow White calls her an old lady, and successfully smashes the stone wall of the prison by head butting the walls.
While the women launch a rescue mission for Jim, who is being held captive elsewhere, Dwight and Puss work to free Gingy, Pinocchio, the wolf and pigs, Dragon, and the Dronkey.
As they prepare to enter the castle and join the ladies, they encounter Artie, and Puss and Dwight explain to him that Jim lied so Charming wouldn't kill him. Artie seems hesitant to believe them.
As the kingdom watches, Charming stages a theatrical performance in which he heroically rides to the rescue of Rapunzel in her (fake) tower and sings, somewhat badly.
To Charming's profound annoyance, the chained Jim wins the audience's support by ridiculing his singing and acting.
Just as Charming is about to kill Jim, Pam and her friends, along with Puss, Dwight and the Fairy Tale characters, leap onto the stage to confront the villains.
It goes awry, however, as the villains largely outnumber the heroes and take them prisoner again.
In the nick of time, Artie arrives and convinces the villains to stop and turn over a new leaf, proving himself to possess effective leadership skills. He says a word of wisdom-"Just because somepeople treat you like a loser, it dosen't mean you are one. The thing that matters most is what you think of yourself.
If there is something you really want or someone you really want to be then you are standing in your own way." The villains drop their weapons and release their captives.
Charming, furious at having been thwarted by this boy, lunges for him with his sword.
Jim blocks the blow and appears to take it in his own chest, leading Charming to exult; the attack missed, however, and the sword is lodged harmlessly under Jim's arm.
Jim informs Charming that he needs to keep looking for his own happily ever after, "because I'm not giving up mine." Dragon slyly knocks over Rapunzel's tower, which lands on Charming, and the crowd cheers.
Charming's crown is sent rolling across the stage by the impact and is caught by Artie.
Jim tells him that the throne is his if he wants it, but it is his decision to make.
Artie lifts the crown toward the audience, who cheer him loudly, then sets it on his own head.
While the kingdom celebrates their new monarch, Merlin appears and restores Puss and Dwight to their proper bodies, though their tails remain switched.
As Far Far Away is left in the capable hands of young King Arthur, Jim retires with Pam to their swamp, having three ogre babies. The movie begins just before Jim rescues Pam in Jim (2001).
Desperate to lift their daughter's curse, King Harold and Queen Lillian meet with con artist Rumpelstiltskin, who requests becoming king of Far Far Away in exchange.
Just before the king signs the contract, a page bursts in and announces that Pam has been saved.
In the present, a disgruntled Rumpelstiltskin wishes Jim was never born and seeks revenge.
Meanwhile, Jim has grown tired of being a domesticated family man and celebrity among the local villagers; he even tires of his friends' visits.
This leads him to yearn for the days when he felt like a "real ogre." He takes his family to Far Far Away to celebrate his children's first birthday with the villagers and his fairy tale friends.
Many things at the party annoy Jim: a little boy constantly asking for Jim to roar; Dwight licking the cake and the three little pigs eating it; his kids crying.
After he lets out a roar of frustration, the entire crowd cheers.
Puss brings out a replacement cake, but Jim smashes it and storms off.
Outside, Jim rants to Pam about how he was a "real ogre" and villagers feared him -- when he could do what he wanted when he wanted to -- before he rescued her. Pam gives up trying to talk sense to Jim and goes back inside.
Rumpelstiltskin, hiding behind a garbage can, has witnessed the whole thing and plans his revenge.
Jim wanders down the road and meets Rumpelstiltskin, who has faked a carriage accident. Jim grudgingly helps him. Rumpelstiltskin in return offers to help Jim by giving him a ride.
Over "eyeball-tinis" and roast rat, Rumpelstiltskin convinces Jim to sign the "Ogre for a Day" contract; in return all he has to give up is a day from his childhood he wouldn't remember being erased.
Jim agrees and signs the contract, and abruptly lands in a world where he is still feared by villagers. He enjoys causing mischief until he finds wanted posters for the ogress Pam. He races back to his home, which he finds reclaimed by the tree and empty.
Witches capture him and take him away in a caged carriage pulled by Dwight; Dwight doesn't know Jim in this alternate world. They reach Far Far Away, which has been turned into a town of poverty and misery, except for Rumpelstiltskin's luxurious castle, which uses ogres and Jim's friends for slaves. The witches deliver Jim to Rumpelstiltskin, who is celebrating his opulence with witches. He tells Jim that the King and Queen signed over their kingdom to him to end Pam's curse; instead they disappeared.
Jim realizes that the day he gave up was the day he was born. Rumpelstiltskin tells him that since he was never born, when the day ends so does Jim; he never met Pam and his kids don't exist.
Jim angrily breaks free of his bonds and fights the witches, taking one of their brooms. He grabs Dwight and flies through the glass of a large window, pulling the giant jewel-encrusted ball that hangs from the ceiling (which gets damaged as it gets stuck in the window).
Safely in the forest, Jim tries to convince Dwight to trust him but Dwight runs away in fear. Jim finds an ogre child's doll and cries.
Dwight has come back and asks Jim why he's crying; Jim tells him that he was tricked into signing Rumpelstiltskin's contract.
Horrified, Dwight shows Jim how to find the exit clause by folding the contract; Jim re-folds it to reveal "true love's kiss" with the explanation: According to fairy-tale law, if not fully satisfied "true love's kiss will render this contract null and void." Jim remembers that he never rescued Pam and they go to the castle where Pam was being held captive; Pam is gone, obviously after many years.
Jim presents Pam's favor (handkerchief) to Dwight to help find her, but Dwight takes off after smelling something sweet.
Dwight falls for a trap baited with waffles, and gets pulled underground.
Jim follows him and finds other ogres who have formed the resistance; the ogres demonstrate a war call by blowing their ears like trumpets.
Pam, in ogre form, comes out -- the leader of the resistance. They all hide when witches patrol overhead. Pam tells them that they wont have to hide after tonight.
At his castle, Rumpelstiltskin plots with the witches how to catch Jim so he won't be able to kiss Pam and break the contract. Rumpelstiltskin decides to hire a bounty hunter.
Jim and Dwight eavesdrop on Pam, who is briefing her lieutenants on the counter-attack for Rumpelstiltskin's raid tonight.
Jim wonders how he will be able to kiss Pam before sunrise. He goes to Pam's tent and encounters Puss-in-Boots, who is fat and retired and who Pam keeps as a pet.
Pam enters and Jim tries to woo her with gifts, but she kicks him out. The Pied Piper arrives at Rumpelstiltskin's castle and proves his expertise by making the witches dance. Rumpelstiltskin agrees to hire him. The ogres eat Jim's gifts and exclaim that these types of gifts won't work on Pam.
Dwight tells Jim that Pam only cares about the ogres' cause.
Jim seeks out Pam and interrupts her practicing in her target room. They spar and become friends, but Pam sends him out immediately afterwards.
Puss has eavesdropped on Jim and Pam, and informs Jim that Pam had possibly found her true love there with him. Jim replies that he knows of her curse and recites it.
Puss tells Jim that he must tell Pam something that only her true love would know.
Rumpelstiltskin's carriage and his witches leave the castle. The ogres leave their hideout and wait for the time to ambush.
Pam scouts ahead and Jim follows her; he tells her that he knows about her curse.
This distracts her and prevents her from giving the signal to attack. The ogres become impatient and attack the carriage and find it empty, and The Pied Piper emerges from the fake pet goose.
Pam is suspicious of Jim, but he tells her private things about her. The Pied piper plays his flute, breaking the moment and making them dance. They join all the other ogres, who are also dancing.
Puss rescues Jim and Pam but they eventually wreck their wagon.
Pam leaves, but Jim tries to stop her, even asking Puss for help, making Pam suspicious. She kisses Jim in anger, confusing Jim when nothing changes.
Pam tells him that true love didn't rescue her from the tower; she saved herself. Pam leaves, angry and bitter. Jim realizes that Pam doesn't love him. The ogres are in cages in Rumpelstiltskin's castle. The Pied Piper informs Rumpelstiltskin that Jim and Pam are together.
Rumpelstiltskin announces to the citizens of Far Far Away through the Magic Mirror (and all the other mirrors) that he is offering a reward for Jim -- a contract to grant them all their wishes.
Jim, Dwight, and Puss hide as all the villagers storm out of town looking for Jim.
Jim captures The Gingerbread Man, who explains the bounty to Jim.
Jim bursts into Rumpelstiltskin's castle, where everyone is trying to cash in on the bounty. He signs the contract in exchange for freeing the ogres.
Jim is happy that the ogres are freed and Pam is safe, but Rumpelstiltskin shows him that she is also a prisoner, because she isnt "all ogre", and recites her curse.
Outside the castle, Dwight informs the ogres that they will bust into the castle the same way they busted out.
Inside the castle, Rumpelstiltskin hoists up his new decorated ball, and celebrates by announcing he will execute Jim and Pam by Dragon in a grand ceremony.
Dwight and Puss interrupt; then the ogres, who were hiding in the decorated ball, trumpet their ears and burst out.
While the ogres battle the witches, Dwight tries unsuccessfully to woo Dragon.
Jim and Pam team up to subdue Dragon and free themselves. The ogres defeat the witches, so Rumpelstiltskin attempts to leave on his goose, but Jim and Pam capture him.
Pam exclaims that they make a good team, but Jim begins to vanish due to the approaching sunrise.
Before Jim completely vanishes, he tells Pam that they have kids, including Felicia.
Pam tells him that she always wanted to have a daughter named Felicia. He gives her the doll he found and tells her that the best part of the day was that he was able to fall in love with her again.
Pam has fallen in love with him too and kisses him before he completely vanishes. The sun rises and Pam is still an ogre -- true love's form. The kiss worked, and everything starts disappearing around Rumpelstiltskin. The contract has been nullified and Jim is returned to his world just as he roars at the birthday party.
Happy again with his family and friends, Jim trumpets his ears, surprising Pam. He tells her that she was the one who rescued him.
Jim and his friends celebrate in the forest to "I'm a believer" by Smashmouth.
Rumpelstiltskin is in a cage. Jim is truly living happily forever after.
Jim wants the perfect Christmas for him and his family but he has no clue how to do it. He buys a book on how to do Christmas perfectly and everything is going well, Until Dwight and gang decide to intrude that is... The special is set shortly after the events of Jim the Third (and before the events of Jim Forever After), as Jim and Pam's children are still infants.
Jim is quietly living in the swamp with his family when the Christmas season arrives.
Under Dwight's urging, Jim reluctantly promises Pam a special Christmas surprise.
Jim goes to the local bookstore to try to find a present for Pam, but since he doesn't know what Christmas is all about, the shopkeeper gives Jim a copy of Christmas For Village Idiots, a step-by-step guide to celebrating the holiday.
Jim proceeds to follow the book's advice by decorating the house and getting a tree so he can spend a quiet Christmas Eve with his family, but Dwight brings the entire "family" to the swamp, ruining Jim's plans.
As Jim tries to tell his own version of "A Visit from St. Nicholas (The Night Before Christmas)"; Gingy, Dwight, and Puss interrupt and each tell their own version of a Christmas story. Dwight tells of floats coming to the swamp.
At the end, Dwight tells of licking an enormous Santa figure that is made out of waffles, but in reality he accidentally starts licking Jim's leg.
Puss tells his version of the story of Santa Claus, but ends up playing with the ball point of his Santa hat, while in reality he is playing with one of the baubles from the Christmas tree. However, Gingy's story is not happy, but horrifying, as he tells about how his girlfriend Suzy got eaten up by Santa Claus.
To which Dwight finds it unbelievable, with Gingy screaming "You weren't THERE!!".
Dwight finds Jim's Christmas for Village Idiots book, and the ensuing fight over the book destroys all of Jim's decorations, furniture and the tree. Jim ends up ejecting his friends from the house.
Christmas spirit ruined, Jim and Pam have a talk, after which she takes the children and leaves the swamp to go and apologize to their friends.
Jim feels downhearted that Christmas Eve didn't go as he hoped it would.
Pam catches up to their friends and explains to Dwight what Jim had wanted for Christmas.
Jim catches up with the group, and apologizes for losing his temper.
Dwight is shocked to learn that this is Jim's first Christmas, because "ogres don't celebrate anything." Dwight also apologizes for being annoying, and explains that Christmas never goes as planned and according to his mother, "'Christmas ain't Christmas until somebody cries', and that's usually me." After a snowball fight, the friends return to the swamp, and Jim tells his story, featuring not Santa, but Ogre Claus.
Soon they hear bells and go outside to see Santa and his reindeer, although Gingy runs back inside screaming in terror.
