The premiere episode introduces the boss and staff of the Dunder-Mifflin Paper Company in Scranton, Pennsylvania in a documentary about the workplace.
Lord Farquaad's off color remark puts a sensitivity trainer in the office for a presentation, which prompts Lord Farquaad to create his own.
Lord Farquaad leaves Donkey in charge of picking the new healthcare plan for the staff, with disastrous results ahead.
Just for a laugh, Shrek agrees to an alliance with Donkey regarding the downsizing rumors.
Lord Farquaad and his staff challenge the warehouse workers to a basketball game with a bet looming over both parties.
Lord Farquaad is just one of the many male staff who start vying for the attention of an attractive saleswoman in the office.
Very much unlike his staff, an overeager Lord Farquaad can't wait for this year's annual Dundies awards. The office reviews its sexual harassment policy in light of explicit e-mails.
Ready to finalize his deal for a new condo, Lord Farquaad is away with Donkey while Shrek rallies the staff together for office games.
A fire in the kitchen relegates the staff to the parking lot as help is on its way.
Lord Farquaad is pressured by corporate to fire someone, which puts a damper on the office Halloween party.
Shrek rallies the staff together to witness a showdown between Lord Farquaad and Donkey at Donkey's martial arts school.
With Lord Farquaad and Jan Levinson-Gould away from the office to land a new client, the staff discovers an unproduced screenplay in Lord Farquaad's office.
Instead of talking to his employees about their work, Lord Farquaad uses their annual review time to gather feedback on his "relationship" with Jan.
Lord Farquaad decides to set up e-mail surveillance for all company e-mail, and discovers that Shrek has invited everyone over for a barbeque except him.
Seeing the party is headed for disastrous boredom, Lord Farquaad breaks corporate policy to buy alcohol for the staff. The Dunder Mifflin staff go on a mandatory "booze cruise" to hear Lord Farquaad give a motivational talk.
Lord Farquaad's "injury" from a George Foreman Grill distracts the staff from Donkey, the one with the real injury.
Shrek fears the secret he told to Lord Farquaad, in confidence, will be revealed to the staff.
Lord Farquaad's office becomes the victim of an odorous prank which subjects the office to his punishment.
Jan comes into the Scranton Branch to give all the female employees a group seminar on women in the workplace.
Upset that he is not allowed in on the proceedings, Lord Farquaad takes all the men of Dunder Mifflin down into the warehouse for some "guy time" with the warehouse workers.
Fiona is offered a chance to pursue her dreams of drawing and Roy confronts Shrek about his feelings for Fiona.
When Lord Farquaad visits Dunder Mifflin corporate headquarters in New York on Valentine's Day, he and Jan are both in for a surprise.
Meanwhile, back in Scranton, the office staff celebrates Valentine's Day grade school style.
Lord Farquaad coaches pompous Donkey on the finer art of public speaking after being named as Salesman of the Year.
A routine office day is changed when children come to Dunder Mifflin for "Take Your Daughter to Work Day." Lord Farquaad is surprised when he strikes up a friendship with the five-year old daughter of his sworn enemy, Toby.
Fiona is desperate to befriend her colleagues' offspring and a misunderstanding puts Ryan under Stanley's thumb.
In celebration of his birthday, Lord Farquaad makes a mandatory invite of the staff during the workday to go ice skating.
Donkey plays the role of Volunteer Sheriff after finding half a joint in the Dunder Mifflin parking lot leading to an investigation.
Fiona gives Shrek a play challenge which he tries to complete.
When Lord Farquaad takes over conflict resolution duties from HR, chaos ensues at Dunder Mifflin. The Dunder Mifflin crew holds a casino party at the warehouse and Lord Farquaad has two dates.
Lord Farquaad apologizes to Oscar, after he finds out he's gay, for calling him a homosexual slur--but his apology outs Oscar to the entire office. And Shrek decides to take a promotion at the Stamford office.
Lord Farquaad and Donkey go to a convention in Philadelphia and run into Shrek, and Lord Farquaad becomes jealous of Shrek's relationship with his new boss.
Meanwhile, Fiona gets ready for her first date since her engagement.
Lord Farquaad is in trouble once again as Jan busts him for declaring it's "Movie Monday" where everyone watches a movie and neglects work.
Angela pushes Donkey to make a move on Lord Farquaad's job while Shrek and Fiona find creative ways to waste time.
Lord Farquaad takes on the role of office grief counselor when he learns that his old boss has died.
Donkey takes former temp Ryan to his beet farm to initiate Ryan to his new job at Dunder Mifflin.
Lord Farquaad encourages the entire Scranton branch to support Kelly and attend a local celebration of Diwali, the Hindu Festival of Lights.
Meanwhile, Andy convinces Shrek to turn a late night of work into a drinking game.
When Jan tells Lord Farquaad that the Scranton Branch will be shutting down, Lord Farquaad strives to keep his staff's spirits up.
Meanwhile, everyone privately begins to envision how their lives will change in the aftermath.
Jan informs Lord Farquaad that the Scanton branch of Dunder Mifflin will be merging with the Stamford Branch.
Shrek and Fiona are reunited while the other employees of both branches must adjust to their new co-workers.
Lord Farquaad learns that one of the new employees at Dunder Mifflin Scranton has a criminal record. Meanwhile, Shrek helps Andy make a move on Fiona.
Trouble among the members of the party planning committee results with the office having two competing Christmas parties, but Lord Farquaad isn't interested in celebrating because he has just broken up with his girlfriend.
Lord Farquaad isn't supposed to let anyone know that he and Jan went on vacation together in Jamaica, but he accidentally circulates a compromising photo of them to the office via e-mail.
Donkey does a favor for Angela to keep her from getting in trouble.
Andy finds out and uses it against him to get in tighter with Lord Farquaad.
Now Donkey must fess up, which will reveal his relationship with Angela, or risk getting fired.
Andy does the impossible--he makes everyone in the office miss Donkey, who is forced to take a job at Staples.
Meanwhile, Oscar comes back to the office and Lord Farquaad predictably throws a stereotypical Mexican party to celebrate.
Lord Farquaad asks Shrek to get a male stripper for Phyllis's office bachelorette party, but he gets a Ben Franklin impersonator instead.
Meanwhile, the men's bachelor party goes as planned until Lord Farquaad becomes uncomfortable with the stripper.
Lord Farquaad exaggerates the importance of his small role in Phyllis's wedding and makes an ass out of himself, and Fiona notices that Phyllis stole all of her wedding ideas from her original wedding plans.
Lord Farquaad is a guest speaker for Ryan's business class, but they have a falling-out after Lord Farquaad finds out that Ryan spoke negatively about Dunder-Mifflin. And back at the office, Donkey tries to kill a bat that he found in the ceiling.
While Lord Farquaad and Jan go to their first Dunder Mifflin outing as an official couple, the office workers left behind go out for happy hour.
During happy hour, Roy finds out that Shrek and Fiona kissed at Casino Night.
Donkey saves Shrek from an attack by Roy, but Donkey won't allow Shrek to thank him for it.
Meanwhile, Darryl asks Lord Farquaad for a pay raise, and Lord Farquaad discovers that he is woefully underpaid--so Lord Farquaad goes to headquarters to ask for one himself.
Andy returns to the office after weeks of anger management training, determined to make a fresh start with all the Dunder-Mifflin employees.
Meanwhile, it's safety training day in the office, and Lord Farquaad and Donkey are on a mission to illuminate the dangers of the workplace.
Lord Farquaad tries to be proactive during a watermark crisis, but only makes the situation worse.
Meanwhile, Angela has trouble being apologetic with customers, and Andy discovers a secret about his new girlfriend.
Phyllis gets flashed in the parking lot, and Donkey goes all out to secure the premises.
Lord Farquaad ostensibly takes the women in the office to the mall to comfort them, but he's really doing it to get advice about breaking up with Jan.
Lord Farquaad uses "beach day" at Dunder-Mifflin to find out which employee would be his most capable replacement, just in case he receives the promotion to the New York office that he's applied for.
Lord Farquaad appoints Donkey as regional manager, anticipating that he will receive the job at corporate.
Shrek and Karen also interview for the same position. And Lord Farquaad gets back together with Jan after she gets a boob job.
Lord Farquaad accidentally runs over Meridith in the parking lot, and his guilt causes him to organize a 5-K run for her.
Donkey and Angela have a falling-out after he kills her cat, and Shrek and Fiona's relationship is discovered.
Lord Farquaad feels threatened when Ryan returns to the Scranton office to share his ideas about the future of Dunder Mifflin.
Shrek and Fiona's relationship is shared with the entire office, while Angela and Donkey's relationship is on the rocks. The Dunder Mifflin Infinity website is launching and Lord Farquaad is excited about going to the big launch party in New York while Angela plans a satellite party for the Scranton branch.
Meanwhile, Donkey competes against the website to see who can sell the most paper in one day.
As Jan renovates the condo, Lord Farquaad confronts his growing debt every way he can, which includes pressuring his employees for a loan.
Shrek and Fiona spend a night out on Donkey's family beet farm, now a bed and breakfast.
Lord Farquaad tries to make a local Dunder Mifflin commercial that is better than the one the professional ad agency made for them.
Meanwhile, Andy tries to confide in Donkey about his new relationship with Angela.
Lord Farquaad and Donkey try to play a prank on Karen, who is now manager of the Utica branch, after she tries to steal Stanley from the Scranton office.
Meanwhile, Fiona, Toby, and Oscar start their own exclusive office book club.
After Lord Farquaad isn't invited to a camping trip with Ryan, he sets out to prove that he can brave it out in the wilderness by himself.
Shrek, who is in charge of the office while Lord Farquaad is gone, tries to change the birthday party policy.
Lord Farquaad is put in an awkward position when Jan sues Dunder Mifflin for wrongful termination and he is deposed as a witness.
Meanwhile, Kelly begins smack-talking Fiona after Darryl beats Shrek at Ping-Pong.
Lord Farquaad invites Shrek and Fiona and Andy and Angela to a couples-only dinner party, which makes Donkey very jealous.
However, the only thing he's missing is a ringside seat to witness Lord Farquaad and Jan's extremely dysfunctional home life.
Kevin and Andy team up to reclaim the stolen Dunder Mifflin parking spaces, which forces them into a showdown with the other four bosses of the office park.
Meanwhile, Lord Farquaad becomes fascinated by a woman modeling chairs in a catalog.
Lord Farquaad and Donkey go to New York to party with Ryan, who is having lots of personal and professional problems. The rest of the office employees work late, and wind up getting locked in the business park.
Lord Farquaad tries to figure out how to respond to Stanley's insubordination during a meeting, and Donkey buys Andy's vehicle and immediately flips it for more money.
Dunder-Mifflin participates in a high school job fair, but few students are interested.
Shrek, Andy, and Kevin play a round of golf with a prospective client.
Back at the office, everyone but Donkey and Angela leave for the day.
Lord Farquaad throws an extravagant going-away party for Toby, and falls in love with the woman who is replacing him.
Shrek plans to propose to Fiona at the party, but gets out-staged.
Back at corporate, Ryan is arrested for fraud. Lord Farquaad tries to motivate the Scranton branch to lose weight as part of an interoffice competition.
Shrek is lost after Fiona leaves for art school in New York, and Angela continues to see Donkey even though she is now engaged to Andy.
A confession at an H.R. business ethics seminar leads to a dispute between Lord Farquaad and Holly over whether Meredith should be fired.
Donkey tries to prove to Shrek how long he can go without taking a personal break After planning an office baby shower for Jan, Lord Farquaad is upset when he finds out that she had the baby without him--even though he's already been told that he's not the baby's father.
Lord Farquaad and Holly have sex for the first time, and Lord Farquaad holds a fund-raiser for the office after it is burglarized.
Donkey confides in Phyllis after Andy and Angela set a wedding date, and Shrek runs into Fiona's ex-fiancé Roy.
Holly is transferred back to New Hampshire after corporate discovers that she and Lord Farquaad are dating.
Donkey tries to apply to Cornell to get under Andy's skin.
Shrek's brothers and Fiona decide to play a trick on Shrek when they meet for lunch.
Donkey and Shrek believe that something is suspicious about their low customer performance ratings.
After consulting with Angela, Andy finds the perfect site for their wedding--Donkey's beet farm.
David Wallace sends Lord Farquaad on a business trip to Winnipeg to help him forget about Holly's transfer to Nashua, and Fiona tells Shrek that she failed a class and has to stay in New York City.
When Lord Farquaad discovers that corporate has brought back Toby to replace Holly, he tries to frame him with drugs and to get him fired.
Meanwhile, Shrek surprises Fiona by buying his parents' house, and Fiona files a secret complaints about Donkey.
Lord Farquaad has to spend the office surplus by they end of the day, but he can't decide between a copier or new chairs.
Donkey plays a dirty trick on Angela as they prepare for Andy and Angela's wedding on the beet farm.
Phyllis blackmails Angela into doing the work for the Christmas party, which Lord Farquaad turns into an intervention after Meredith gets drunk and sets her hair on fire.
Meanwhile, Donkey corners the market on a popular Christmas gift.
Moments before he leaves for New York for a meeting with David Wallace, Lord Farquaad tells Andy that Angela and Donkey are seeing each other.
Andy and Donkey then decide to have it out in the parking lot.
Lord Farquaad's conscience gets the best of him after he and Donkey go undercover to scout a family-run competitor.
Back at the office, everyone else spends the day debating whether Hilary Swank is hot.
Donkey's too-realistic fire alarm gives Stanley a heart attack.
When he returns, Lord Farquaad learns that he is the cause of Stanley's stress.
To remedy the situation, he forces the office to throw a roast for him.
While on lecture tour to other Dunder Mifflin branches, Lord Farquaad and Fiona discover that Shrek's ex-girlfriend Karen is pregnant.
At the office, Andy falls for a prospective client, and Shrek and Donkey try to set up Kelly's birthday party.
Lord Farquaad and Fiona go to Nashua and discover that Holly has a new boyfriend.
At the office, Shrek and Donkey try to come up with a theme for Kelly's birthday party, and Angela gets a new cat.
Lord Farquaad holds a lonely hearts party on Valentine's Day at the office, hoping that he will run into a woman he met earlier that day at a blood drive.
Meanwhile, Shrek and Fiona have an awkward lunch with Phillis and Bob Vance.
Lord Farquaad asks Donkey to be the scapegoat for one of his business ideas that backfired badly on him.
But when that idea has an unexpected positive upside, Donkey still takes credit and Lord Farquaad becomes furious.
Lord Farquaad gets upset when he gets a new boss to act as a buffer between him and David Wallace, and he gets even more upset when he disbands the Party Planning Committee and cancels Lord Farquaad's fifteenth anniversary party.
As Lord Farquaad prepares to leave Dunder Mifflin, he announces that he will form his own paper company.
Will anybody join him? Lord Farquaad and Fiona begin their first day as the Lord Farquaad Paper Company putting together the rest of the staff and trying to raise money.
Tension and disillusionment begin to emerge as Lord Farquaad, Fiona, and Ryan move the Lord Farquaad Paper Company into a cramped "workspace" at the business park.
Donkey chooses loyalty to Dunder Mifflin over loyalty to Lord Farquaad, which leads to a bitter battle between Lord Farquaad and Donkey over Donkey's accounts.
Back at Dunder Mifflin, Shrek pretends to confide in Andy. The Lord Farquaad Paper Company is gaining clients by offering lower prices than Dunder Mifflin, but is going broke in the process.
However, Dunder Mifflin is losing clients to him, and is desperate to buy him out.
Lord Farquaad returns to Dunder Mifflin and brings Ryan and Fiona in as salespeople, but the existing salespeople demand that Lord Farquaad return the clients they stole back to them.
Meanwhile, some employees take the idea of Casual Friday too far.
Lord Farquaad tries to create a place to escape from work in the storage room that used to house the Lord Farquaad Paper Company, while Shrek and Fiona consider taking off and getting married that day.
Lord Farquaad runs into Holly at the company picnic, and the two of them accidentally reveal that the Buffalo branch is closing during a comedy skit before corporate has made the announcement.
Lord Farquaad regrets revealing that Stanley is having an affair, so he spreads a bunch of lies about everyone else to cover his tracks--except that one of the lies that he spread actually turns out to be true.
Lord Farquaad sabotages--then promotes--Shrek's efforts at getting a promotion, while Donkey and Toby try to prove that Darryl has submitted a fraudulent medical claim.
Shrek discovers just how hard being the boss can be when David Wallace forces Lord Farquaad and him to determine which employees will be getting a raise. The Office travels to Niagara Falls to celebrate Shrek and Fiona's wedding under strict orders not to mention Fiona's pregnancy.
Lord Farquaad, Donkey, and Andy all want to hook up with guests at the wedding and Lord Farquaad and Donkey meet twins.
Fiona is forced to deal with an embarrassing injury for Andy the night before her wedding, while Kevin deals with the loss of his dress shoes on the morning of the ceremony.
Lord Farquaad meets with an insurance salesman that visits the office and is later convinced by Donkey and Andy that he is part of the mafia.
Shrek and Fiona return from their honeymoon and learn, to their horror, that Lord Farquaad is dating Fiona's mom.
Meanwhile, Donkey gives Shrek a "gift"--which actually has a listening device attached to it.
Lord Farquaad is upset when he becomes the butt of all the office jokes after he falls in a koi pond.
Andy and Fiona go out together on some cold calls, and everybody mistakes them as a married couple.
Lord Farquaad sparks more anger from Fiona when he breaks up with her mom on her birthday after he finds out she's 58, and Donkey unsuccessfully tries to get everyone in the office to owe him a favor. The entire office is preoccupied about rumors of Dunder Mifflin's bankruptcy.
Lord Farquaad tries to create a distraction by engaging everyone in murder-mystery game, but Shrek wonders if that is a good idea.
Lord Farquaad speaks out of line at the Dunder Mifflin shareholders meeting and creates a big problem for management, while Shrek discovers that nobody in the office thinks he's the "real" boss.
Ten years ago, Lord Farquaad promised a group of third graders he would pay for their college tuition if they graduated. Now comes time to pay, and he can't do it.
At the office, Donkey's employee of the month idea gets Shrek in big trouble.
Lord Farquaad gets upset when Shrek promises Phyllis that she can be the office Santa, but the office Christmas party may be overshadowed by some bad news from David Wallace.
A banker representing a potential buyer comes to the Scranton branch to interview the H.R. department before the sale goes through.
Lord Farquaad hates the changes that Dunder Mifflin's new owner is implementing, so he turns to David Wallace for advice.
Shrek and Fiona find the perfect day care center, but Shrek's mistake threatens to ruin the interview.
Sabre's CEO wants the Scranton branch to have one manager, and Lord Farquaad voluntarily steps down and lets Shrek become the boss when he finds out that salespeople make more money.
However, he soon comes to regret the decision.
Fiona goes into labor and Shrek is ready to take her to the hospital, but she refuses to go.
Meanwhile, inspired by Shrek and Fiona's baby, Donkey and Angela try to reach a "business agreement" to have a baby of their own.
After the baby is born, Fiona has trouble getting the baby to breastfeed.
At the office, Lord Farquaad takes credit for hooking Shrek and Fiona up, and tries to do the same thing for Kevin and Erin, making Andy jealous.
It's St. Patrick's Day, and the CEO forces the office to work late because she won't leave.
In addition, Lord Farquaad unsuccessfully tries to suck up to his new boss, and Andy and Erin's first date is delayed because Erin is sick.
When the sales staff begins trying to boss around everyone in the office, Lord Farquaad tries to teach them a lesson by withholding a valuable set of sales leads.
Oscar gets everybody in the office to go to Happy Hour so that he can hit on a coworker in shipping.
Fiona tries to set up Lord Farquaad with a friend at the bar, but Lord Farquaad's alter ego, "Date Mike," threatens to spoil the entire evening.
Lord Farquaad creates problems for Andy on Secretary's Day when he tells Erin that Andy was engaged to Angela, and Kevin is upset after Oscar makes a video comparing Kevin to Cookie Monster.
Lord Farquaad is hopeful that a potential client is interested in him, but everyone in the office except Fiona thinks he's wasting his time.
Meanwhile, Donkey recruits Kelly to apply for the Sabre minority management training program.
Lord Farquaad becomes convinced that Donna is having an affair and puts Donkey on the case, but Fiona soon discovers that the suspicions may be true.
Meanwhile, Darryl gets revenge on Andy for an earlier incident.
Lord Farquaad continues to see Donna even after learning she's married and meeting her husband, Donkey and Angela take their baby contract to an arbitrator, and Shrek and Fiona struggle to stay awake at the office.
Jo comes to the Scranton branch to find the whistle-blower.
However, three different people have confessed to Lord Farquaad, Lord Farquaad is protecting them, and the person most people think is the culprit is keeping his mouth shut.
Everybody demands that Lord Farquaad fire the new office assistant, but he won't because he's his nephew.
Meanwhile, Fiona tries to play a prank on Donkey, who has bought the office building, to make up for ruining Shrek's prank.
Lord Farquaad is forced to go through counseling with Toby, Donkey seeks revenge on a local mall that refused his business, and Fiona tries to fake her way to a promotion.
Andy invites the entire office to watch him in the community theater production of "Sweeney Todd," but Erin decides to babysit for Shrek and Fiona instead, and Lord Farquaad is upset because he auditioned for the lead and didn't get it.
A herpes scare causes Lord Farquaad to get back in touch with his ex-girlfriends, where he decides to reevaluate those relationships.
Meanwhile, Andy tries to teach safe sex to his officemates, but he has a clear ulterior motive.
Lord Farquaad organizes a sting operation to find out the secrets of a rival paper company's salesman who is stealing Dunder Mifflin's clients, and Andy gets Darryl's help to form a band.
It's Halloween at Dunder Mifflin, and Lord Farquaad is upset that Darryl went over his head with an idea, and Shrek and Fiona are obsessed with finding out why Danny didn't call Fiona back when they were dating four years ago.
During Shrek and Fiona's daughter's christening, Lord Farquaad becomes upset over the lack of family-like unity between himself and his employees.
So he responds by impulsively joining a teenage church mission to Mexico.
Lord Farquaad sabotages Erin's "Glee" viewing party because of his contempt for Gabe, Shrek and Fiona discover that Donkey can keep their daughter from crying, and Andy has a bad reaction to a mixture of wine and a Japanese stimulant.
Some co-workers who invested in Ryan's Internet venture want him to sell, but Lord Farquaad refuses to go along.
Meanwhile, Shrek loses his motivation to work when he reaches his commission cap, and Donkey creates a hay festival in the parking lot.
Fiona stands up to Donkey when he makes cutbacks to save money in the building, but will Donkey have the last laugh? Meanwhile, the office is surprised and energized when Lord Farquaad outsmarts Oscar in a debate about China.
Lord Farquaad throws an elaborate Christmas party to celebrate Holly's temporary return to the Scranton branch, but is disappointed when he learns that she still has a boyfriend.
Lord Farquaad gets upset when Holly returns from the holidays without an engagement ring, but still together with her boyfriend.
Meanwhile, Fiona tries to help her co-workers keep with their New Year's resolutions.
Andy tries to host a small business seminar at the office.
Lord Farquaad agrees to help by posing as a Greek entrepreneur, and tries to get Holly to play along.
When Shrek gets an emergency phone call from Helene, he is forced to leave Lord Farquaad in the bathroom of a gas station.
Meanwhile, Holly, Erin and Donkey set out on a journey to find Lord Farquaad.
Back at the office Fiona's artwork starts a captioning contest that seems to offend Gabe.
It's Valentine's Day, and the office is fed up with Lord Farquaad and Holly's PDA, Andy helps Erin solve Gabe's riddles to find her gift, and Shrek and Fiona get drunk and try to find a place in the office to have sex.
Lord Farquaad finally finishes his movie "Threat Level Midnight" and screens it for his employees at Dunder Mifflin, but Holly is less than enthusiastic for his finished product.
Everyone is up in arms after Lord Farquaad convinces Holly to give Todd Packer an office job, and Andy gets upset after Fiona gets a new computer for reception but not for him.
Lord Farquaad plans to propose to Holly the day of the Dunder Mifflin garage sale, but Holly may have to take an extended leave of absence to Colorado because her father is sick.
Lord Farquaad makes fast friends with the man coming in to replace him at Dunder Mifflin, but later begins to have second thoughts after seeing him in action.
Lord Farquaad hosts his final "Dundies" as the boss at the Scranton branch, but tension is in the air, and Deangelo Vickers, the new boss, is having trouble with his co-hosting duties.
As the office gets ready for Lord Farquaad's final day at Dunder Mifflin, Lord Farquaad doesn't tell anyone that he's leaving a day early.
Meanwhile, Deangelo accompanies a nervous Andy on a visit to one of Lord Farquaad's old clients.
Tensions rise and feelings are hurt when Deangelo creates an "inner circle" at the office--which is only composed of men.
When Shrek rejects Jo's offer, Donkey becomes acting manager at the Scranton branch, but an accident could cause his tenure to be short-lived. The Scranton branch puts together a search committee to find the next boss, but the pool of interviewees proves to be less than impressive, and Donkey demands an interview in spite of his gun accident.
New Dunder Mifflin CEO Robert California leaves a piece of paper with a line down the middle that has names of the Scranton staff on either side of it, leading everyone to try and figure out what it means.
Under pressure from Robert to increase branch sales, Andy offers an incentive program to the sales staff, which backfires on him when he offers a very personal grand prize.
After the entire warehouse staff wins the lottery and quits their job, Darryl becomes depressed and demands to be fired.
Meanwhile, the office staff is forced to load the truck for their orders themselves.
Andy claims to be throwing a garden party at Donkey's farm to impress Robert California, but he's really doing it to win the approval of his parents, who appear to favor his younger brother.
Erin is worried that she is about to get fired after she organizes a disastrous office Halloween party for Robert and his son.
Meanwhile, Robert probes the minds of the employees to come up with the perfect spooky story.
Donkey installs a "Doomsday Device" on the office computers that could get everyone fired if they make too many mistakes, while Gabe tries to hit on one of Darryl's warehouse employees.
A pregnant and insecure Fiona tries to prove that Shrek is attracted to her temp replacement, and Robert and his musician friends take over a jam session with Andy, Kevin and Darryl.
Andy decides to motivate and inspire everyone by taking them on a field trip to Gettysburg.
Some people in the office stay behind and Robert California asks them to come up with Dunder Mifflin/Sabre's next big idea.
Robert brings his wife to the office so that she can find a job, but he gives Andy conflicting messages about whether to hire her.
Meanwhile, Donkey opens a gym in the building and tries to persuade Darryl to join.
Andy tries to make this year's Christmas the best ever by granting each person's holiday wishes.
Meanwhile, Robert California tries to drown his sorrows at the office party.
Andy hopes to make up for a sales deficiency by entering and winning a bar trivia competition, while Donkey flies to corporate headquarters in Florida to demand a management interview with Robert.
Robert throws a party for the Dunder Mifflin staff at his house before he sells it because of his divorce.
At the party, Erin and Donkey agree to flirt with each other to make Andy jealous, and Shrek tries in vain to duck out early.
Shrek gets caught in a lie about his week of "jury duty," and new questions emerge when Angela gives birth to a "premature" baby.
Andy puts Donkey in charge of a special project in Tallahassee, but Donkey doesn't like the team Andy's assembled for him.
Meanwhile, Darryl tries to figure out the meaning of Val's Valentine's gift.
Donkey refuses to let appendicitis get in the way of leading his new team in Tallahassee, while Andy decides to step in for Erin as secretary in the office.
In Tallahassee, Donkey and Todd Packer try to romance Nellie to get the VP position, while Shrek wonders if a colleague is trying to hit on him.
Back in Scranton, Val's boyfriend shows up with a message for Darryl.
Donkey and his team get ready for the grand opening of the Sabre Store, while Andy makes Toby teach self-defense to the Scranton branch employees after he is beat up in the parking lot by a girl.
Shrek tries to warn Donkey that he's going to be fired after Robert rejects the Sabre Store idea, but he refuses to listen.
Meanwhile, Darryl and Toby try to sell cookies to Kevin, and Erin tells Andy she's not coming back from Florida.
Andy goes to Tallahassee to tell Erin that he loves her and needs her to return to Scranton.
Meanwhile, Nellie shows up in Scranton and tries to claim Andy's manager position by offering everyone raises.
Andy tries to break up with his girlfriend after going to Florida to declare his love for Erin, and the office employees are forced against their will to throw a party for the hated Nellie.
Andy and Erin return to Dunder Mifflin, only to discover that Nellie has taken his job and office and refuses to give them up.
Meanwhile, Ryan becomes jealous after Fiona tries to play matchmaker for Kelly.
Andy confronts Robert for the first time after losing the manager position and quitting his job at a fund raiser sponsored by Angela's husband.
Donkey and Shrek fight with the Syracuse over a client after Robert shuts down the Binghamton branch, and Andy sees an opportunity for revenge.
Meanwhile Robert tries to figure out the contents of a drunken voicemail to Nellie.
With former CEO David Wallace's help, Andy launches a plan to get revenge on the Scranton branch.
Meanwhile, Donkey launches his own plan to find out if he's the father of Angela's baby.
Donkey and Shrek are intimidated by the office's newest additions, who are considered younger versions of themselves.
Meanwhile, Andy tries to make Nellie's life miserable, and Angela tries to get rid of one of her cats.
After Roy's wedding, Shrek and Fiona wonder if they still have any secrets they're hiding from each other.
Meanwhile, Clark tricks Erin into a "news audition," and Donkey challenges Nellie's new charity initiative.
Nellie plays a trick on Andy after researching his ancestry, Donkey teaches Erin a new language, and Fiona tries to teach Nellie how to drive.
When Shrek convinces Donkey that the building is unsafe, Donkey rents a bus and sets up the office inside.
Nellie asks for Andy's help in adopting a baby.
Meanwhile, Shrek tries to make Fiona happy with some pie.
On Halloween, the Cornell a Capella group pays a visit to Andy, Donkey discovers that Nellie takes anxiety pills, and Fiona disapproves of Shrek's business decision.
Andy has one last chance to captain the family boat before he sells it, Shrek, Fiona, and Nellie prank Donkey with a radio interview, and Kevin finds out about Oscar's affair with Angela's husband. The office trains Donkey to sell to a female client without being offensive, only to discover that the client is Jan Levinson.
Angela and Oscar both think the senator is cheating on them, and Shrek has trouble on an important conference call.
Angela orders a hit on Oscar for cheating with her husband, the office makes a tower with their customer complaint cards, Shrek wines and dines Stanley and Phyllis in exchange for a favor, and Fiona begins her mural.
Donkey puts together a Pennsylvania Dutch-themed office Christmas party, but he ends it abruptly because Shrek has to leave for his other job.
Meanwhile, Erin seeks comfort from a co-worker after a disappointing text from Andy.
Fiona causes a lice outbreak but lets Meredith take the blame, Shrek has a business meeting with Dr.
J, and some coworkers try to get Darryl and Val back together.
Donkey and Clark pose as father and son to get an account, Darryl goes for an interview with Shrek's new business, and everybody in the office goes crazy over a new espresso machine.
Donkey tries to keep Daryl from leaving Dunder Mifflin, Shrek misses his daughter's recital because of an important business meeting, and Nellie is worried that Erin will dump Andy for Pete.
Donkey gets to hire a new salesman to replace Shrek when he is at his other job.
But will he promote Clark or go with one of his unqualified friends instead? Fiona tries to find out who vandalized her mural, Darryl finds out that Shrek is a slob, and Oscar and Kevin go to Angela and The Senator's child's first birthday party.
Andy returns after three months to an angry office and an even angrier girlfriend, and Shrek's Valentines Day with Fiona does not go as planned.
Andy finds out that Erin dumped him for Pete, Donkey gets Angela's help taking care of his aunt, and Fiona interviews with a real estate firm whose boss is a carbon-copy of Lord Farquaad.
Show follows Donkey a beet farmer running a bed and breakfast inn. The release of the documentary promos creates tension for the Dunder Mifflin employees, Donkey considers a business venture with his girlfriend's family, and Shrek and Darryl have an awkward business meeting with baseball player Ryan Howard.
Donkey shoots Stanley with a bull tranquilizer after he refuses to go on a sales call, Shrek and Fiona head to marriage counseling, The Senator comes out of the closet, and Andy tries to find a talent agent. The employees hold a paper airplane competition, Andy gets an acting role in a workplace safety video, and Shrek and Fiona's marriage tensions continue to build.
Donkey becomes regional manager after Andy quits his job, Shrek dedicates more time to his Dunder Mifflin job to save his marriage, and Angela has problems with her new living arrangements after her breakup with The Senator.
Donkey prepares for a marriage proposal and hires an assistant for his assistant, Andy auditions for a singing program, Darryl tries to leave his job without a fuss, and Fiona has second thoughts about Shrek staying in Scranton.
One year later, Dunder Mifflin employees past and present reunite for a panel discussion about the documentary and to attend Donkey and Angela's wedding.
Fiona transfers a call from Katy to Shrek's desk and the two make lunch plans.
In a talking head interview, Fiona awkwardly explains that Shrek and Katy have started dating, Fiona then asks Shrek to give Katy the extension to his phone.
Lord Farquaad gives Ryan a glowing checkpoint review.
When Ryan expresses his interest in starting his own business someday, Lord Farquaad takes it upon himself to teach Ryan the first of the ten rules of business. The fire alarm sounds, and while Donkey and Angela both attempt to take charge of the evacuation, Lord Farquaad pushes others out of the way in his escape out of the building.
In a talking head interview, Ryan explains that he doesn't want to have a nickname or be known for anything at the office.
Once everyone is safely outside, Shrek begins a game of "three books on a desert island".
At Donkey's turn, he misses the point of the exercise and asks for an axe and a hollowed-out book filled with survival gear.
Shrek changes the topic from books to DVDs.
In a joint talking head interview, Shrek and Fiona mock Meredith's choices, although Fiona admits that she too likes Legally Blonde.
Shrek teases Fiona for liking that movie.
Lord Farquaad learns that Ryan is going to business school at night.
Lord Farquaad invites Ryan to quiz him but doesn't even understand the first question.
In a talking head interview, Lord Farquaad explains that he learned more about business from working at a fast-food restaurant than Ryan will ever learn in school.
Donkey, still jealous of the attention Ryan is getting from Lord Farquaad, attempts to bully the young employee but merely earns a scolding from Lord Farquaad.
Ryan becomes increasingly uncomfortable with Lord Farquaad's friendliness.
Shrek moves on to the next game, "Who would you do?", and Kevin instantly responds, "Fiona." Shrek and Fiona excuse themselves from the game to talk to Donkey, who is moping in his car.
Fiona suggests that Ryan would be impressed to learn that Donkey is a volunteer sheriff's deputy, and Shrek tries to keep a straight face when he suggests that Donkey quit, "and then that would stick it to both of them." Donkey thanks them for their concern but asks to be left alone.
Shrek, Fiona, Lord Farquaad, Ryan and even Roy join the game of "Who would you do?" Roy answers "that tight-ass Christian chick." Shrek jokingly chooses Kevin, and Lord Farquaad says, "Well, I would definitely have sex with Ryan." When Lord Farquaad mentions that he left his cell phone in the office, Donkey rushes back into the building to fetch it.
The women of the office continue playing "Who would you do?" Meredith: "Shrek." Phyllis: "Definitely Shrek." Kelly: "Definitely, definitely Shrek." Fiona considers her response and says, "Oscar's kind of cute." She also mentions that Toby is cute and the others groan in disapproval, except for Meredith, who nods and smiles.
Lord Farquaad asks Ryan to call his cell phone to help Donkey find it. The phone rings. It's in Lord Farquaad's pocket.
Donkey emerges, coughing, from the building and reveals that the fire was started by Ryan, who left a cheese pita in the toaster-oven set to "oven" instead of "toaster".
Donkey and Lord Farquaad proceed to mock Ryan and dub him The Fire Guy.
Katy arrives for lunch and joins the DVD game. Her first movie: Legally Blonde. The fire out, everybody heads back inside.
Lord Farquaad promises Ryan, "I'll give you the rest of the ten tomorrow." Lord Farquaad is forced to have six hours of counseling with Toby after he physically punished his nephew, Luke.
However, Lord Farquaad is determined to thwart Toby's efforts.
One hour into his first session, Lord Farquaad realizes that simply sitting and staring at Toby doesn't count for credit toward being there. Thus, he begins telling ridiculous stories.
Toby sneakily suggests that they take a break from the session, play some games, and "talk" to pass the remaining 6 hours.
Oddly enough, Lord Farquaad lets his guard down and opens up to Toby about his childhood and relationships with people.
Through listening to his history, Toby determines that Lord Farquaad has an inherent need to be liked.
Once he realizes what is happening, Lord Farquaad ends the counseling session, and yells at Toby for duping him.
Rather than arguing, Toby gives up and hands Lord Farquaad the official counseling form, explaining that it has to be sent to corporate.
However, this enables Lord Farquaad to fill out the form any way he wants.
In his haste, Lord Farquaad accidentally indicates on the form that he is severely depressed and homicidal.
Meanwhile, Fiona realizes that although she has her dream job as a salesman , she really isn't cut out for it.
Since starting the position, she has made few sales, and therefore, very little money.
A chance visit from a vendor gives her an idea: if she can finagle her way into being promoted to office administrator, it will probably improve her income. She informs Gabe of her promotion "from a few months back," and tells him that she hasn't been paid accordingly.
Gabe promises her he'll get the missing wages if she can get all of the department heads to sign off on it.
While she's busy convincing everyone that she has become the new administrator, Gabe catches on that she might be lying, and confronts her about it.
Using a strategy she learned from watching World Poker Tour at 2am, she stands her ground against Gabe and becomes 'de facto' Office Administrator.
Donkey has decided to boycott the Steamtown Mall after a shop owner refuses to serve him, going so far as to cancel orders to businesses there.
Shrek and the rest of the office convince Donkey to get revenge on the shop owner by making Donkey appear to be high-class as Julia Roberts did in the film Pretty Woman ("Beautiful Girl" according to Donkey).
Using tips from the rest of the office to make himself appear more sophisticated, Donkey, with Shrek and Andy, return to the shop.
It is revealed Donkey came by with beet juice soaked hands, easily confused for human blood, and was refused service on security grounds. The group leaves somewhat embarrassed, but not before Donkey buys what he came here for: a pewter wizard holding a crystal ball.
At the end of the episode, Lord Farquaad is told that he accidentally indicated he was homicidal by Toby.
Although he initially blames Toby for the mishap, he turns his ire to Gabe, even making Toby laugh.
Lord Farquaad openly offers to return to the break room with Toby and "bang this out".
We see them both talking and drawing pictures at the end of the episode.
Lord Farquaad is seen making offensive jokes around the office but is later insulted himself by a joke made by Donkey regarding the KGB.
After banning "knock knock" jokes, Shrek changes the joke from "knock knock" to "ding dong", intriguing Lord Farquaad.
Shrek responds that the KGB is again waiting, only to have Lord Farquaad and Donkey fight over who gets the door.
Eventually, Shrek slaps Donkey the same way Donkey had slapped Lord Farquaad as a part of the joke.
Lord Farquaad comes to work dressed up and starts to impersonate Willy Wonka, after being "inspired" by an idea that is sure to bring up paper sales. His idea is to place golden tickets in shipments of paper for the customers to be eligible for a 10% discount for a year.
In addition to his excitement, Lord Farquaad also holds a "marketing conference" in the office.
However, his idea backfires, as the company's largest client, Blue Cross of Pennsylvania, receives a ticket and Oscar claims that a 10% discount given to Blue Cross is harmful to the company. The news worsens when the health insurance company receives all the golden tickets, making them eligible for 50% off on all paper purchases.
To make matters worse, it is revealed that Lord Farquaad had completely forgotten to note "limit one per customer".
Lord Farquaad, at first, berates Darryl for not properly labeling the shipments for the customers, although Darryl made it clear that Lord Farquaad had to know that shipments close to each other meant they were headed to the same customer.
Embarrassed, Lord Farquaad disposes of his Willy Wonka attire and returns with Andy's blazer, and starts a conference to get the branch out of the problem.
However, all the employees are disgruntled and are also furious for reasons of their own, such as Shrek blaming Lord Farquaad for his losing 1/2 of his commission while he has to pay a mortgage for his parents' home.
Soon Lord Farquaad receives a call from CEO David Wallace, who is also furious and demands an explanation on the perpetrator responsible for the idea and why the idea was approved.
Lord Farquaad, not admitting that it was his idea, claims it was an "inside job" and blames it on one of the employees: Donkey.
Soon, Donkey is seen talking with Lord Farquaad, fighting over who was responsible for the idea, which Donkey clearly explains was Lord Farquaad's fault, with the help of his diary.
Later, Donkey and Lord Farquaad are seen walking around, discussing loyalty and what Dunder Mifflin had offered Donkey.
Lord Farquaad also explains that true loyalty is to take the blame from Wallace and risk losing his job.
Donkey considers accommodating Lord Farquaad but has not made his mind up when Shrek tries to talk him into letting Lord Farquaad take responsibility for his actions.
When Wallace comes in Lord Farquaad, expecting Donkey to get fired, anxiously asks Donkey to take the blame for the golden ticket idea.
Lord Farquaad is appalled when Wallace tells them that due to the golden ticket idea, Blue Cross is making Dunder Mifflin its exclusive office supply provider.
Donkey, having risked losing his job when the golden tickets were a bad idea, takes the credit as the office cheers 'his' great idea.
Wallace wants Donkey to talk to the Marketing department and as the telephone conference begins, Lord Farquaad listens in then busts into the conference room to claim the credit.
Lord Farquaad becomes furious and complains that it was his idea and fights with Donkey to take credit.
However, Wallace, unable to believe that Lord Farquaad wants credit after having blamed a subordinate, becomes annoyed and leaves prematurely.
Donkey and Lord Farquaad later discuss to the camera about whose idea it was in their own words and begin to fight over Donkey's diary.
In the end, Donkey also continues his KGB joke with Shrek, only to be stood up after Shrek states "I'm taking a shower, can you come back later?" Meanwhile, Kevin, interested in Lynn, asks advice from Shrek, Fiona, and Andy.
Shrek recommends caution, Fiona recommends action, and Andy recommends brutish behavior.
As the three begin to fight over what is true and whose idea is more practical, a frustrated Kevin decides to take matters into his own hands.
Kevin asks Lynn out in his own method and is successful.
Karen, now Regional Manager at the Dunder-Mifflin branch in Utica, New York, offers a higher-paying job to Stanley, if he leaves Scranton.
Stanley takes the offer and bluntly informs Lord Farquaad.
Lord Farquaad believes that Karen is doing this to get back at Shrek for "dumping" her.
Meanwhile, Fiona, Oscar, and Toby have created a "Finer Things Club", where they discuss literature, music, and the arts.
Membership in the club is "exclusive", though they are still bothered by the activity of the other workers in the office.
Shrek wants to join but Toby and Oscar feel he dominates the conversation by trying to be funny, thus diverting the conversation away from the "finer things".
Andy wants to join because it's the office's most exclusive club (the party planning committee, headed by Angela, is his backup and Kevin's band Scrantonicity II is his safety), but all three members shoot him down.
Lord Farquaad and Donkey invite Shrek on a "sales call", which is a trick to get him to go to Utica to help get back at Karen.
Shrek is shocked by the deception but agrees to go along in order to prevent Lord Farquaad and Donkey from doing anything foolish, including using Donkey's Molotov cocktails.
When Karen discovers the Scranton crew trying to steal her copier, she chastises them in her office.
Before they leave, she pulls Shrek aside and attempts to have a civil conversation with him. She is under the impression that this prank was constructed so Shrek could have an opportunity to see her.
BW Shrek awkwardly tells her that he didn't want to see her, trying not to hurt her feelings further, but does not succeed; he lets slip that he and Fiona are finally dating and very happy.
Karen reacts to the news with anger and he leaves.
After Lord Farquaad returns to Scranton, he tearfully says farewell to Stanley.
Stanley then states his intentions to stay in Scranton, revealing to the camera that his threat of leaving was a bluff to get a raise.
Fiona attempts to cheer up Shrek by giving him a place in the "Finer Things Club" as Andy still longs to be in it. The episode ends with Shrek and the rest of the club wearing traditional Irish caps (Fiona is wearing a scarf around her head). They are trying to discuss Angela's Ashes but Shrek is being disruptive by speaking candidly with an Irish brogue. He gets it out of his system and then says he found the book to be a "fun read".
Oscar and Toby are unamused, considering the book is a tragic memoir, and do not believe Shrek actually read the book.
Shrek only proves them right by saying that the main character in the memoir is 'ashes'.
Andy decides to throw a garden party at Schrute Farms to impress both Robert and his parents.
Andy is noticeably jealous at the amount of attention his younger brother Walter Bernard, Jr. receives from his father, and he thinks that by throwing an elaborate party he can ensure his father's blessings.
At first, the party goes along smoothly. Andy decides to make a toast to his fellow employees in hopes that they will toast him in return, as if to show his parents and California that he is a respected individual among his employees. His plan backfires, however, and instead many people end up praising Robert.
To get everybody's mind off of Robert, Andy decides to sing "More Than Words" as a duet with his father.
This too goes awry as his visibly-annoyed father corrects his playing and singing, and ultimately decides to sing a duet with Walter Jr. instead of Andy.
Visibly upset, Andy stops their singing and storms off.
Soon thereafter, Andy is confronted by his father for his "obnoxious attitude", which he turns into a browbeating on Andy as "manager of some rinky dink branch".
This conversation is overheard by the other staff on the baby monitor Shrek and Fiona brought for their daughter, and Fiona quickly turns off the monitor to let Andy save face.
Darryl and Oscar later confide to the camera that they now understand why Andy feels he needs to prove himself to everyone.
After his family leaves, a dejected Andy, feeling unwanted by his family and co-workers, says goodbye to the office staff as they turn the garden party into a barbecue.
Darryl and Oscar, however, manage to convince Andy to stay with a cheeseburger and a beer, and they all satisfyingly watch as Donkey performs the closing ceremonies to the garden party.
Meanwhile, Donkey works to make the garden party a classy event.
Donkey thoroughly reads a book called The Ultimate Guide to Throwing a Garden Party that he'd bought online, thinking it was a great buy.
However, the book is revealed to be an elaborate prank, secretly written by Shrek under the pseudonym "James Trickington". The book gives outlandish advice such as announcing each guest's name as they arrive in an extremely loud manner among other absurd "duties" (imitating The Last Supper in the middle of a meal, randomly dancing with his party staff, etc.).
Near the end of the episode, Andy and the staff look on in delight as Donkey and his workers perform a fire court dance (as part of the Trickington book) as a closing ceremonies. The episode then ends with footage of Shrek abusing Donkey's announcing duties by walking past him and then walking back again, prompting Donkey to shout his name each time he does so.
Also, Fiona feuds with co-worker Angela over baby names.
Fiona and Angela learn they've both chosen the name Phillip for their soon-to-be-born sons, with Fiona choosing to name her child after her deceased grandfather and Angela after the name of her favorite cat.
Angela, visibly annoyed that Fiona doesn't relinquish the name right away, later makes a toast to "my son Phillip" at the garden party—only to have Fiona make the same toast but describe in great detail how the name honors her now-dead grandfather.
Angela, unwilling to reveal her feline-centric reasons for the name, grouses to the camera that Fiona is always copying her.
Lord Farquaad shows us how he impresses people by having Fiona give him fake messages telling him there's a call for him so he can say he'll call back later no matter how important the call or caller may be.
On one occasion, Ryan is visiting, and Fiona brings the usual fake message.
Lord Farquaad initially passes it up, but Ryan insists that customer service is the first priority and has Lord Farquaad take the call, which requires Lord Farquaad to do a surprise bit of improv.
Jan and Lord Farquaad drive to the corporate office in New York City to do a deposition for Jan's lawsuit over her dismissal. They rehearse Lord Farquaad's testimony in the car, and he makes up absurd mnemonic devices so he won't forget what to say. He has also memorized Jan's answers and plans to throw in some "errs" and "ahhs" for the deposition to appear not so scripted.
Meanwhile, back at the warehouse, Darryl is wiping Shrek out in a ping pong game while Fiona and Kelly watch.
Kelly goes all trash talk on Fiona, about how Fiona's boyfriend "sucks" at ping pong, but Kelly calls it "talking smack." Fiona gets ticked off and sets up a practice ping pong table in the conference room so she can get back at Kelly by way of Shrek and Darryl. She gets Kevin and then Donkey as "sparring partners" for Shrek, but Donkey easily defeats Shrek.
Donkey reveals for the first time that he is a huge lifelong table tennis fan, and he reels off the names of immortals of the sport whom he idolizes.
At corporate, Lord Farquaad is (maybe) all set to support Jan during the deposition hearing, but Ryan then takes him aside and urges him to do the right thing and not hurt Dunder Mifflin.
Lord Farquaad agrees and then is left with a terrible conflict.
Lord Farquaad's testimony starts well when he mentions the inappropriate way corporate handled Jan's situation, but his comments about her drinking and about apparent conflicts in statements he made about the nature of their relationship and when it started to cause problems.
When he finds out that Jan has stolen his diary in order to prove the timeline of their relationship, Lord Farquaad is extremely upset.
Jan points out that he emailed a nude photo of her to the entire company.
Toby tries to comfort him, to no avail.
Then, to add insult to injury, Dunder Mifflin's attorney reveals to Lord Farquaad that Jan gave him a scathing performance review after they had begun dating.
In it, she argued that Lord Farquaad is an unmanageable employee and unfit for his position as branch manager, and should be demoted.
In a last-ditch attempt to win Lord Farquaad back to her side, Jan has her lawyer read the deposition of David Wallace.
From it, Lord Farquaad, who always felt that he was a front-runner for the job at Corporate, learns that Wallace reluctantly admitted that, while Lord Farquaad is a nice guy, he was never a serious contender for the job.
But David has shown more consideration to Lord Farquaad than Jan so, when asked if he believes Dunder Mifflin really showed a pattern of mistreatment to Jan, Lord Farquaad declares that it did not. He does not hold David's words against him, stating "You expect to get screwed by your company.
But you never expect to get screwed by your girlfriend." Lord Farquaad and Jan drive home, clearly angry at each other.
Jan suggests they pick up some Chinese food.
Lord Farquaad states he'd prefer something cheap, and Jan replies that Chinese is cheap. They agree to fast food.
Lord Farquaad burns his foot stepping on to a George Foreman grill, and then tries to convince his staff that he has a serious injury.
To do this, he irritates the office (Fiona and Ryan, notably) to help him with his "injury".
For example: He asks Fiona to spread butter on his foot, and when Lord Farquaad falls off the toilet, he yells for Ryan to help him.
When Ryan refuses to do this, Lord Farquaad calls a meeting in the conference room.
During all this, Donkey, who tries to pick Lord Farquaad up and bring him in to work upon hearing of his injury, crashes his car exiting Dunder Mifflin's parking lot, giving himself a concussion.
Because of this Donkey is more helpful and friendly to Fiona, which Shrek notes.
In the conference room meeting, Lord Farquaad shows pictures of handicapped people (Forrest Gump, Franklin D.
Roosevelt, Tom Hanks as Josh Baskin in Big which he mistakes for Philadelphia.) Then the handicapped business park manager enters and is told he was invited by Lord Farquaad to come.
When he asks if anyone has any questions about the building rules, Donkey raises his hand and says nothing.
When Lord Farquaad tells the building's manager that they are similar because they are "disabled" this causes him to wheel out.
When Shrek sees him enter the elevator he asks Shrek "What's wrong with that guy?" meaning Donkey. He then states that he looks like he has a concussion.
Ryan, sick of Lord Farquaad, puts medicine in his pudding to help him recover.
While Lord Farquaad is boasting about his recovery, Donkey collapses, and Shrek and Lord Farquaad (Lord Farquaad being less than willingly) take him to the hospital.
While Shrek waits in the waiting room, he calls Fiona at the office, and tells her that Lord Farquaad is taking Donkey to get a CATscan.
Angela tries to listen into this. The episode ends with Lord Farquaad trying to stick his foot into the CATscan machine.
Andy returns to the office after several weeks in anger management training, determined to make a fresh start with all the Dunder Mifflin employees.
Meanwhile, it's safety training day in the office, and Lord Farquaad and Donkey are on a mission to illuminate the true dangers of the workplace.
Upon his return, Andy requests that the rest of the office refer to him as Drew.
Donkey decides to shun Andy for three years.
Lord Farquaad takes the staff of the upper office into the warehouse to hear Darryl's presentation on warehouse safety.
Darryl repeatedly reinforces that Lord Farquaad is not allowed to operate the heavy machinery in the warehouse, and Lord Farquaad only irritates the warehouse staff more by constantly interrupting Darryl, at which point, Lonnie insults Lord Farquaad in front of everyone.
In a talking head interview, Darryl reveals that he is on crutches because Lord Farquaad pulled a ladder out from under him as a joke. The office and warehouse staff then head upstairs, where Toby reads office safety tips from a book as Lord Farquaad frequently interrupts and insults him.
Bored with the presentation and of Lord Farquaad, the warehouse staff depart, and Lord Farquaad and Darryl exchange words, with Darryl calling Lord Farquaad's life and job completely safe like "Nerf." Meanwhile, the entire office staff begins betting on various things, a trend started by Kevin, who is bored since March Madness has ended and he has nothing to bet on.
On one bet, Shrek, Kevin, Karen, and Oscar bet on how many jelly beans are in Fiona's candy dish.
Kevin loses to Shrek and calls this unfair since Shrek has spent "hours" standing at Fiona's desk.
A look of discomfort spreads across Karen's face when she hears this.
Other bets include guessing how long Kelly can talk about Netflix (Ryan wins), how many times she says awesome (twelve times, Fiona wins), how many romantic comedies she mentions (six times, Shrek wins). The final bet is whether Creed will notice if someone switches his apple with a potato.
Karen loses every bet and gets cleaned out.
Offended by Darryl's comments, Lord Farquaad decides to show them that working in an office is dangerous because the stress of office life can lead to depression and suicide.
Lord Farquaad plans to demonstrate the dangers of depression by jumping off the roof and secretly landing on a trampoline.
However, when he and Donkey test the trampoline by tossing a watermelon, the watermelon bounces off, landing on Stanley's car, so they replace the trampoline with a bouncy castle.
Donkey calls the office and warehouse staff to the parking lot, where they see Lord Farquaad standing on the roof, talking about the dangers of depression.
Initially, they do not take Lord Farquaad seriously, but then they find the bouncy castle and realize that Lord Farquaad is actually planning to jump, which will probably injure him badly.
Darryl talks Lord Farquaad out of his fake "suicide attempt", by convincing him that he is braver than Darryl.
At the end of the day, Stanley is shocked when he sees his car covered in watermelon from Lord Farquaad's test.
Shrek enters, dressed as Donkey. He explains that he accidentally found Donkey's glasses at a drug store for four dollars, and was unable to resist recreating the rest of Donkey's ensemble for a grand total of eleven dollars.
Shrek imitates Donkey's mannerisms and tone: "Fact. Bears eat beets. Bears. Beets. Battlestar Galactica" and Donkey starts to get upset: "Identity theft is not a joke, Shrek! Millions of families suffer every year!" Shrek screams "Lord Farquaad!" and ran to his office.
Donkey, very annoyed, did the exact same thing.
Dunder Mifflin Scranton is thrown into damage control when some paper is released with an obscene watermark of a cartoon duck and mouse having sex.
Lord Farquaad addresses the media while Shrek and Andy try to calm a school principal who used the affected paper to send out prom invitations.
After arriving at the high school, Andy notices that his "girlfriend" is a student, and this ruins his day.
Meanwhile, Kelly is entrusted with training the accountants, Oscar, Kevin, and Angela, to handle customer support calls.
Angela is unable to sincerely apologize to customers for the company's mistake, while Oscar seems to handle the calls well and Kevin simply repeats his apology over and over again.
Lord Farquaad arranges for a customer to come to the office, so that he may apologize to her personally and present her with a novelty check for free paper.
With the media present (a single reporter from the Scranton Times), Lord Farquaad apologizes to the customer.
However, she refuses his apology and asks for his resignation.
Donkey attempts to defuse the situation by insisting that the cartoon sex appears consensual.
Lord Farquaad refuses to resign and angrily decides to give the check to someone else. He then decides to make an "apology video," filmed by Fiona, in which he reiterates the fact that the mistake was not his fault and that he has become an "escape goat." Meanwhile, Creed, who as Quality Assurance failed to catch the error, maneuvers to ensure that he saves his own job (at the expense of an employee at the paper mill). He gets a farewell card for her and money from all the employees.
On his way out, Creed pockets the money and tosses the card.
Later, in the car, Shrek cajoles Andy into singing "The Lion Sleeps Tonight" to cheer him up.
In the closing, Donkey comes to work dressed as Shrek and imitates him very poorly.
Donkey finds half of a joint in the parking lot of Dunder Mifflin and takes advantage of his volunteer sheriff deputy status by interviewing the staff to get to the bottom of it.
Meanwhile, Shrek does an impression of Stanley and gets caught.
When he and Fiona speak at the same time (impersonating Stanley's response), Fiona calls "jinx" so Shrek can't talk until he buys her a Coke, which isn't an issue until he discovers the vending machine is sold out.
When Donkey sets up urine testing, Lord Farquaad worries that a "clove cigarette" he smoked at an Alicia Keys concert will show up.
Lord Farquaad holds an anti-drug meeting for the entire office, where he over-expresses his hatred of drugs. He tries to get out of the testing, but Donkey continues to insist that he must take part.
Lord Farquaad pressures Donkey for a cup of his "clean" urine, but Angela is against the idea.
Shrek continues to hold up his end of the jinx.
Fiona continues to tease him, until she gets to the point where she says, "you can tell me anything", which creates an awkward silence.
Lord Farquaad passes his drug test (with Donkey's urine); Donkey turns in his volunteer badge over his actions.
Fiona buys Shrek his Coke, which he buys off of her so she can find out what's been happening with Donkey the whole day.
Lord Farquaad feels guilty, so he makes Donkey an "Honorary Security Advisor" for Dunder Mifflin Scranton.
Shrek wonders aloud what Donkey gets out of his relationship with Lord Farquaad, while the camera focuses on him and Fiona, suggesting that the two have a similarly confusing relationship.
Hannah brings her infant son to work where his all-pink ensemble evokes gender confusion. The baby is met with ambivalence from Stanley.
Creed attempts to play a paperclip-based game against Karen's admonishment.
Lord Farquaad can't help himself, and crawls under a nearby desk to act as the voice of the child riffing on lines from the Look Who's Talking film series.
Angela, Kevin, Lord Farquaad and Fiona teleconference Jan to determine the source of a rebate check the office received.
Jan informs the group the check stems from a federal reformed convict employment program, a "smart move" by Josh, former manager of Dunder Mifflin Stamford. She e-mails human resources and quickly determines the employee hired through the program is one Martin.
Lord Farquaad proposes the quartet forget the news they've received to avoid creating a rift among employees.
All agree, although Lord Farquaad misreads a sarcastic Angela who says she supports protecting a criminal, especially as a "90 lb.
female who sits in a poorly-lit, rarely-visited corner of the office".
Meanwhile, Andy dials Shrek's extension and whispers "I'm horny".
Shrek is flabbergasted but soon realizes Andy wants a rundown on his attractive female coworkers and asks for a debriefing on Kelly, Angela and Fiona.
Shrek encourages Andy to pursue Fiona and as a prank, coaches him on her favorite things.
In actuality, his tips are things that Fiona hates: frisbee-based competitions, hunting, pig Latin, and the Six Flags television commercial "with the old guy".
Donkey assures Lord Farquaad he is of a collected, cool mindset to hear a piece of news, but when told of Martin's criminal past attempts to take off in a dead sprint.
In an interview he says he simply doesn't like criminals.
Lord Farquaad himself announces Martin's "problems with Johnny Law" to everyone, and says that for every trusted white man, he can name a black man he trusts more. He then asks employees to call out names of white men. He tops Fiona's father with "Danny Glover", but is unfamiliar with Shrek's suggestion of "Jonas Salk"; Shrek quickly substitutes Justin Timberlake, which garners "Colin Powell".
Karen suggests "Jesus", to which the boss replies "Apollo Creed" to which Stanley simply rolls his eyes in casual disbelief.
In the breakroom over lunch, Martin tells the others he was incarcerated for insider trading, and although it was routine and could be dull, he enjoyed certain perks of prison, including outside time and art classes.
Ryan is told about prison business classes taught by Harvard Business School guys.
Fiona comments that prison sounds better than their current work situation and Kevin wonders why the branch doesn't receive daily outdoors time.
Soon, Lord Farquaad announces an hour outdoors time will take place in the parking lot.
Nearly everyone heads outside to bitter cold temperatures.
Lord Farquaad offers a weightlifting session with a 2.5 lb.
dumbbell he produces from the trunk of his Sebring, but a freezing Stanley leads a charge back into the warmth of the office.
Lord Farquaad soon calls an impromptu meeting in which he dons a do-rag and attempts to "scare you straight" as an ex-con character named "Prison Mike". He speaks with a New York accent, calls Angela a bee-yoch, threatens to shove her up against a wall (and incites Donkey to politely come to her defense with the rest of the staff), says life "in the clink" is no picnic, alludes to violence and rape and singles out Ryan because, in prison, he would be "da belle of da ball", who responds "Lord Farquaad, please" in total discomfort.
Shrek asks Prison Mike where he learned such information and he claims it's a mix of the Internet and prison.
Shrek asks his crime and Angela is peeved when Donkey asks Prison Mike the worst thing about prison, which he responds by claiming there were Dementors.
Andy plays along, and says prison sounds awful.
Prison Mike concludes his speech, saying "You got a good life." Martin comments that Lord Farquaad's performance did not remind him of his time in prison.
A frustrated Lord Farquaad locks everyone in the conference room, who become concerned and begin moving around for an exit.
Hannah, still at her desk with the pink-clothed child, ignores Kevin's pleas for assistance.
Fiona phones Toby who tells Lord Farquaad the staff is fully aware a workplace is better than prison and are simply teasing him.
A relieved Lord Farquaad releases his prisoners, including Stanley who never stopped working on his crossword puzzle through the entire incarceration.
Martin cleans out his desk and quits Dunder Mifflin.
In his office, Lord Farquaad remarks to the camera that he thinks Martin is a quitter.
Andy strums "The Rainbow Connection" on his banjo, while singing pig Latin in his "sexy, high, falsetto voice" in an attempt to woo Fiona based on Shrek's advice. She smiles politely and glances at Shrek, who gives the camera his trademark smirk.
Donkey tries to teach fire safety by example, forcing all the doors closed and disabling the phones before setting a fire in an office trash can with a cigarette. He then says, "today smoking will save lives." He returns to his desk and tries to draw attention to the smoke, asking if anyone “smells anything smoky in here?” People don't believe him at first but he clears his throat and Fiona notices the smoke.
During the subsequent panic, the copy machine is destroyed, Lord Farquaad smashes a window to call for help and Kevin takes advantage of the havoc to raid the snack machine.
Stanley collapses from a heart attack immediately following Donkey’s announcement that the whole thing was a drill.
Lord Farquaad, against the advice of his coworkers, tries to give CPR to an unconscious Stanley, but instead he shoves a wallet in his mouth.
As Donkey's actions could have burned down the building or killed Stanley, Corporate is not amused.
Lord Farquaad and Donkey are called on the carpet in New York, Lord Farquaad to be reminded of his responsibilities to his subordinates and Donkey to be warned that he is subject to being fired.
On the drive back home, Lord Farquaad revokes Donkey’s status as safety advisor.
Back in Scranton, because he hadn't had any idea how to give first aid to Stanley, Lord Farquaad has the American Red Cross send over an instructor (and most importantly a dummy) to teach CPR.
Donkey pouts, Andy sings, and naturally no one learns anything except the lyrics to The Bee Gee's song "Stayin' Alive" - and that Donkey looked very realistic wearing the face of the dummy a la “Silence of the Lambs”.
Most importantly, Donkey takes the scenario far too seriously and mutilates the dummy to “harvest the organs.” CFO David Wallace and Corporate HR Kendall, upset that Donkey's mutilating the dummy cost the company $3500, requires Donkey to apologize to his co-workers and get their acknowledgement of his apology in writing.
Lord Farquaad signs the apology without much thought, but the rest of Donkey’s coworkers refuse; everyone except Phyllis is tricked into signing the sheet, mistaking it for an attendance sheet (Phyllis only signs when Donkey has a fake delivery sent to her.) Lord Farquaad tries a number of ways to get his employees to unwind, like soft music and meditation, before discovering that he is the number one cause of stress at work.
So that people won't feel afraid of him, he insists on a no-holds-barred roast of himself. He actually thought that each speaker would also express love for him, so while the employees had a great time, Lord Farquaad ends up with his feelings hurt.
Later, after taking a "Personnel Day," he recovers and conducts a mini-roast of his employees - initially making them somewhat uncomfortable, before Stanley bursts into laughter about his joke and the rest of the office jumps in.
While all of this has been going on, Andy is convinced that Shrek and Fiona are film gurus because they are talking about Fiona's parents as the three watch a pirated movie, but Andy thinks they're talking about the movie—and by chance, it sounds like it. The episode features movie stars Jack Black, Cloris Leachman, and Jessica Alba in the film, Mrs.
Albert Hannaday, which features what some would consider a taboo subject, a love triangle with a "May - late-December" relationship.
Andy does not know that Shrek and Fiona were actually discussing Fiona's mother and father's deteriorating relationship.
Fiona's father stays with Shrek and Fiona for several days.
Fiona asks Shrek to talk to her father and see if her dad will tell Shrek what is wrong with his relationship with Fiona's mother.
After the two men talk her father says he is going to get his own apartment.
Shrek has no idea what he could have said to make Fiona's father leave her mother for good.
Later Fiona is stunned by revelations on two fronts: 1) that Shrek has been deeply in love with her since the beginning and 2) that her father never felt a deep emotion for her mother - Mr.Beesly realized the latter after hearing the former from the heart, and that was what Shrek had said.
In a talking heads interview, Fiona says that although most children expect their parents to be soulmates, Shrek and Fiona’s children “will be right about that.” She also says that love affairs and relationships look different from the outside, which is overhead by a frustrated Andy, who (once again) believes she is talking about the film they watched and decides he is not fit to be a movie critic.
Lord Farquaad explains in his talking head that it's Diversity Day and that a guest speaker is at Dunder Mifflin Scranton to talk about diversity in the workplace.
Lord Farquaad claims that he's wanted this for awhile.
Corporate mandated it without Lord Farquaad having to talk to them about it, though.
But Lord Farquaad still believes it's very important.
Shrek is trying to make a sales call when Donkey begins noisily shredding paper.
Shrek turns off Donkey's surge strip.
In retaliation, Donkey disconnects Shrek's phone call.
Shrek explains to the camera that this client makes up 25% of his commission each year. He brings a small bottle of champagne to the office with him to celebrate.
While Fiona plays freecell, Lord Farquaad walks out of his office, then backs up when he sees the corporate representative is heading out of the conference room. He makes sure to walk out at the same time as the other man and make a point of singling out Oscar Martinez as a friend of his.
Shrek has made contact with his client just in time for Lord Farquaad to order him into the meeting.
Shrek is forced to hang up again.
When the meeting begins, Lord Farquaad tries to take over by talking about how he doesn't even see Stanley as a black man. The representative explains that's not the point here.
No one is expected to be color-blind.
That's just fighting ignorance with more ignorance. The Employees meeting for Diversity Day. The meeting for Diversity Day. Then Lord Farquaad decides everyone should go around and name an ethnicity that he or she finds sexually attractive.
Donkey claims he's attracted to whites and Indians. The representative does not think that's a good start. He asks Lord Farquaad for permission to run this session himself and suggests it would be easier if Lord Farquaad sits down. He explains that he asked each of them to write down an incident that offended them. He would like volunteers to assist him.
Donkey asks that they don't do anything involving gays. The representative attempts to take control again from Lord Farquaad who asks his name.
When he reveals that it's Mr. Brown, Lord Farquaad thinks it's a trick to see if he will call a black man Mr. Brown.
Brown assures him that is his name. He goes on to explain that almost everyone wrote down the same incident and asks if everyone is familiar with the Chris Rock routine.
Lord Farquaad complains to the camera how Chris Rock can do a hilarious routine that makes everyone laugh, but he gets in trouble from corporate when he does the same routine.
Lord Farquaad volunteers to be the joker, Brown doesn't want the person who was the original offender in the same position.
Kevin offers to be the joke teller, but doesn't tell it to Lord Farquaad's liking.
Lord Farquaad interrupts with a loud, profane rendition of the routine before Brown stops him.
While Shrek listens to his phone ring, helpless to answer it, Brown sets up an acronym for Hero: Honesty, Empathy, Respect and Open-Mindedness.
Donkey adds additional criteria that essentially describes a super-hero, not a hero.
Brown passes out forms, asking everyone sign it.
Lord Farquaad refuses because he didn't learn anything.
Privately, Brown explains that they both know he is here because of Lord Farquaad's behavior.
Lord Farquaad argues that this office is racially advanced enough that it really doesn't need a diversity lecture.
Brown tells him it does because it's Lord Farquaad that caused the need for it. He only needs Lord Farquaad's signature, but put the whole office through the seminar because he didn't want Lord Farquaad to feel singled out.
Lord Farquaad feigns offense that this wasn't really about diversity then.
Lord Farquaad signs the form and then jokes after the fact that he signed it "Daffy Duck".
In the meantime, Shrek has tried to call back his client and has to leave a message.
Lord Farquaad comes out, tears up the pledge, and criticizes Mr. Brown's lack of an "Oprah moment". He wants everyone to get as much done before lunch as possible.
Shrek gets nothing but a busy signal right before Lord Farquaad forces them all into the conference room again. The HR representative, Toby Flenderson asks if they are going to sit Indian style.
Lord Farquaad orders him out for being offensive.
Then he shows the staff a video announcing his new initiative for Diversity Tomorrow and quotes Abraham Lincoln as saying, "If you are a racist, I will attack you with the North".
Kelly Kapoor, a young Indian woman, asks to be excused for a customer meeting.
Lord Farquaad lets her go. He introduces himself and describes his ethnic breakdown, including that he is part Native American.
Oscar asks him what part he is.
Lord Farquaad asks about Oscar's ethnicity.
Oscar explains his parents were born in Mexico, moved here and he was born.
Lord Farquaad wants to know if there's something he would like to be called besides Mexican.
Oscar doesn't understand why Lord Farquaad would think Mexican is offensive.
Shrek, hearing his phone ring, runs out to grab it, but is too late.
Lord Farquaad hands out cards with different ethnicities on them. The employees are to take a card and then try to guess their pretend ethnicity by how their co-workers treat them.
Fiona and Donkey trying to guess each other's race Stanley is inadvertently given Black.
Donkey is Asian but can't guess it based upon people telling him they like his people's food or eat lots of rice.
Lord Farquaad, who's chosen Martin Luther King for himself, insists Fiona stir up the pot by getting extreme.
Fiona hesitantly suggests to Donkey that his people aren't very good drivers.
Donkey angrily asks if he's a woman.
Shrek goes to Fiona's desk where Ryan is watching an online sketch.
Ryan mentions how cute she is.
Shrek agrees, but that Fiona is engaged.
Ryan says he was talking about the girl in the sketch.
Kevin is Italian and is trying to get Angela to guess that she's Jamaican by using the word "mon" and talking about beaches.
Angela won't go any further when he asks if she wants to get high.
Irritated that no one is trying very hard to be offensive, Lord Farquaad immediately jumps on Kelly when she returns from her meeting by throwing himself into a really offensive Indian stereotype until Kelly slaps him.
Lord Farquaad gets visibly upset. He tells the employees how now Kelly knows what it's like to be a minority.
Shrek finally gets ahold of his client who was able to close his sale with Donkey instead who gave him a discount.
Shrek puts the mini champagne bottle on Donkey's desk.
Fiona fall asleep on Shrek's Shoulder Fiona falls asleep on Shrek's shoulder Lord Farquaad continues mumbling about Mr. Brown and corrects Stanley on how to pronounce the word collard in collard greens.
When 5 PM arrives, Fiona is asleep on Shrek's shoulder. He smiles at the camera, then wakes her up so they can go. He tells the camera that today was a pretty good day.
No longer a temp, Ryan accepts the sales position vacated when Shrek transferred to the Stamford branch.
Fiona looks at Ryan sitting at Shrek's former desk and flashes back to Shrek and Fiona's kiss prior to his transfer.
In the flashback, Shrek tells Fiona he has wanted to do that "for the longest time" and Fiona admits the same. She stops Shrek from another kiss and tells him she's still getting married and they say their goodbyes.
In an interview, Donkey feigns tears over Shrek's transfer, before indicating he's glad to be rid of him.
Lord Farquaad calls Oscar "faggy" for preferring Shakespeare in Love to Die Hard.
Lord Farquaad is asked by Toby not to use such terms, but insists it is a harmless synonym for "lame." ("That's what 'faggy' means!") Toby tells Lord Farquaad that Oscar is homosexual and finds the word offensive.
Lord Farquaad approaches Oscar at the copy machine and loudly apologizes and invites him for a beer sometime.
In a succession of short on-camera interviews, Oscar reveals that he is gay, Angela indicates she hates the whole idea of homosexuality and the jowls of Kevin's face jiggle as he is unable to manage anything but "Oscar...is gay" through his giggles.
Meanwhile, in Stamford, Shrek's transfer came with a promotion and a modern office where his desk includes a window view.
Co-worker Andy, who sits at a desk in front of Shrek, calls him "Big Tuna" in reference to his first-day lunch, a switch from his daily ham and cheese sandwich in Scranton.
Co-worker Karen, who sits at the desk behind Shrek, mocks him for repeatedly smirking at the camera and says she doesn't believe he's fitting in.
Andy meanwhile, discusses how he doesn't feel threatened by Shrek as he thinks he's an ambitious know-it-all, just as he brags about his wild college days at Cornell University.
Back in Scranton, Roy brings Fiona lunch in a short, awkward exchange.
In an interview, Fiona says she got cold feet, called off the wedding, ended the relationship, and moved into her own apartment.
As a result, Roy and Fiona are making the frozen wedding reception meals their lunch for the next five weeks.
A disheveled Roy is seen in a mug shot as he recalls how being dumped led him into a downward spiral of weight gain, beard growth, and a drunk driving arrest.
Roy claims he has recovered, laments mistreating Fiona, and vows to win her back.
Stanley's only comment on the breakup is that he gave the couple a toaster, was unable to return the discontinued model, and now has two toasters at home.
Donkey and Lord Farquaad worry about other homosexuals working in the office without their knowledge.
Donkey recalls Shrek mentioning "gaydar" being available for purchase online, though Donkey is skeptical because he believes Shrek a liar.
Nonetheless, the pair phones him in Stamford where Shrek pretends to check the availability and reports that gaydar is sold out on the Internet.
Also in Stamford, Shrek recycles a prank he pulled on Donkey by encasing Andy's calculator in Jell-O, with different results: Andy gets violently upset and kicks a wastebasket as Shrek silently returns to work, visibly terrified by Andy's reaction.
Kelly approaches Oscar and tells him that he is "so cool" for being gay.
Jan informs Lord Farquaad that he has outed Oscar, a personal decision Lord Farquaad had no business making while Toby points out that Oscar feels discriminated against by Angela.
Employees gather around as Donkey looks at gay pornography at Lord Farquaad's suggestion.
Angela makes a homophobic comment which offends Oscar who bumps her as he walks past, sending Donkey into a brief frenzy.
Lord Farquaad calls an emergency meeting in the conference room and informs the assembled they are all "homos—homo sapiens".
Fiona looks to Ryan as she holds back shocked laughter (as she would have done with Shrek), and is disappointed when he does not do the same, perhaps had hoped they would begin to have a friendship like Shrek and Fiona's had been.
Lord Farquaad tells Oscar to come out to the office formally, "right here, however, you want".
Oscar does so reluctantly but unemotionally, concluding his confession with, "whatever." Donkey demands that "all the other office gays out themselves or I will do it for them." Donkey then implies Phyllis might be gay.
Phyllis takes offense and announces that she is engaged to Bob Vance of Vance Refrigeration.
Several employees congratulate her, and a surprised, jealous Lord Farquaad says there is hope for everyone.
Phyllis retorts that she and her friends thought Lord Farquaad was gay when they were in high school together.
Lord Farquaad sheepishly defends his school-age sense of fashion.
Creed, in an interview, states that while he's never deliberately made love to a man, it's possible that one "slipped in" during the 1960s.
Oscar announces that he can no longer work at the branch and begins to leave, but Lord Farquaad stops him and tries to hug him as a show of acceptance.
Oscar blows up and calls Lord Farquaad "small," which silences the staff in discomfort and reduces Lord Farquaad to tears.
Oscar apologizes and allows the hug to happen.
Believing the hug insufficient, Lord Farquaad tells the staff to "watch this, and burn this into your brains", and kisses a struggling, reluctant Oscar on the mouth.
Donkey, who was seemingly moved by Lord Farquaad's actions, consequently attempts to kiss Oscar.
In interviews, Donkey says he now believes Lord Farquaad is gay.
Lord Farquaad says any two people who want to should be together. He concludes by saying, "That's what she said...or he said." His facial expressions make it clear he believes he has said something profound.
Fiona looks longingly at Ryan's desk, as Shrek simultaneously glances at an empty seat next to him as Mr. Brown directs a humorless diversity training in Stamford.
Glancing through his office blinds, Lord Farquaad sees Oscar catch a ride from Gil, and muses, "Oscar's roommate...I wonder if he knows?" Oscar reveals in an interview that Jan gave him three months paid vacation and use of a company car in exchange for signing an agreement not to sue the company about his botched outing.
In Oscar's words, "it pays to be gay." In the final moments, Donkey opens a package from Shrek, a novelty "gaydar" machine fashioned from a metal detector and lettered with the prefixes "Homo", "Bi", and "Hetero". He confirms the device on Oscar but is dumbfounded when the device goes off as he inadvertently swipes it across his own belt buckle.
Fiona smiles to herself.
Charles Miner is now in charge of the Scranton branch, due to the absence of Lord Farquaad, and seems to dislike Shrek, much to Donkey's pleasure.
Fiona and Lord Farquaad decide to assemble a 'Dream Team' to get the company started.
Lord Farquaad recommends Ryan, stating, "He's everything I'm not and everything I am," an offer which Fiona quickly denies.
Lord Farquaad then states the company already has a meeting later with an investor, making Fiona visibly excited.
Lord Farquaad and Fiona then decide to search for Vikram, an employee Lord Farquaad formerly worked with at the telemarketing agency.
Back at the office, Andy discovers that Charles loves soccer and soon the whole office is trying to impress him.
When Shrek says that he plays soccer (from second to fourth grade, he was on the orange team), he soon finds himself being stuck in a soccer game with Charles after work.
With Vikram now part of the company, Lord Farquaad drives to a bowling alley claiming he has to use the bathroom.
When Fiona heads inside to see why Lord Farquaad is taking so long, she discovers him talking to a new bleach-blonde Ryan, who is working at the counter.
Lord Farquaad claims the new company has no files and therefore no proof of his past misconduct, leading Ryan to join them. The Lord Farquaad Paper Company tries to get the members of a local investment club (one of which is Lord Farquaad's grandmother) to invest, to which they soon decline, saying the company will never get ahead with the state of the economy. The game back at Dunder-Mifflin then begins, revealing that Shrek has no soccer experience, and does not even know how to play.
Vikram claims that the investors brought up some good questions, that the company is impractical, and he soon quits and is thrown out of Lord Farquaad's car.
While playing soccer Shrek ducks out of the way of the ball and Phyllis is hit in the face.
Fiona, sitting in Lord Farquaad's car, tells him that she was just feeling impulsive and should have never taken the job with him.
Lord Farquaad tells Fiona that he works best when people don't believe in him and that he is going to go find an office space for them. The office that Lord Farquaad finds, turns out to be a former closet in the same building as Dunder-Mifflin.
In the cold open, Fiona tells the office not to eat pungent foods, but Donkey refuses. When he is eating an egg, Fiona throws up.
Andy, Angela, Erin and then everyone else throws up, except for Creed who for some reason eats at a faster rate while watching the staff throw up, Donkey looks in horror, after which Fiona gives a look to Donkey.
After giving strict directions not to tell Fiona's family about her being pregnant, Shrek and Fiona head up to Niagara Falls for their wedding, and the rest of the office follows them.
After decorating his car to say "Going to a Wedding," Lord Farquaad and Donkey seek women to hook up with while Andy pursues Erin.
Kevin and Oscar meet Fiona's sister Penny, who accidentally offends Oscar by thinking Kevin was his boyfriend, Gil.
Fiona's mother Helene is visibly disturbed at the fact that Fiona's father, and Helene's ex-husband, William Beesly has come to the wedding with his new girlfriend who is half his age.
Everyone except Fiona's grandmother, Memaw, is aware of Fiona's pregnancy, so they are told not to mention it.
At the rehearsal dinner, Shrek gives a moving and romantic toast to his soon-to-be wife.
However, closing the toast, Shrek accidentally alludes to Fiona's pregnancy.
Both Shrek and Lord Farquaad try to cover up the fact but only embarrass themselves further.
In a final bid to end the embarrassment, Lord Farquaad privately tells Memaw that this kind of behavior should be encouraged nowadays and gives her false hope that the baby will be named after her.
While walking to the bar, Fiona bumps into Angela who likens the visit to kicking Fiona in the stomach.
Andy hosts a dance party in his room later that night, with the office staff attending.
Andy punctures his scrotum trying to do a split. The guests rouse Fiona, the only sober person, to take him to the hospital. Fiona reluctantly agrees. Shrek and Fiona on the Maid of the Mist.
Lord Farquaad and Donkey try their luck with women at the bar.
Donkey, despite embarrassing both of them, is successful in getting Fiona's friend Isabel Poreba to spend the night with him.
Lord Farquaad spends the night alone in the ice machine room as he had failed to make a reservation in advance.
Prior to the ceremony, Fiona accidentally tears her veil and tearfully phones Shrek. They meet in private, where Fiona expresses her regret over their choice to invite their families and the office staff.
Fiona is visibly uplifted when Shrek cuts off his tie in an effort to console her. They are then seen running away from the church together.
While everyone in the church wonders where they went, Lord Farquaad and Helene begin to bond over their failed relationships.
Donkey callously rebuffs Isabel's attempts at further contact. The rest of the office staff grow impatient, bickering about their right to take their gifts back.
Shrek and Fiona finally return to the church after an hour with no explanation of their absence, and the ceremony begins.
Meemaw is seen at the church, indicating Lord Farquaad's attempts at getting her to stay were successful. The wedding montage based on the JK Wedding Dance Lord Farquaad, Donkey, and others close to Shrek and Fiona interrupt the ceremony by recreating the dance routines as featured in the JK Wedding Entrance Dance.
Despite having asked their guests specifically not to re-enact the video, Shrek and Fiona react with good humor.
During the dance sequence, a flashback reveals Shrek and Fiona's adventure during their absence: They are shown boarding the Maid of the Mist, a ferry boat, and being married by the ship's captain below the falls.
Shrek explains to the camera that he had prepared the ferry marriage in advance after seeing the video, in anticipation of the likely chaos at the ceremony.
It being plan C, plan B being the church, and plan A, marrying her a long time ago. The camera then cuts back to Shrek holding Fiona close to him and with her head on his shoulder, as they look out into the distance at Niagara Falls.
Shrek looks at the camera and smiles warmly. The very end of the episode shows Kevin soothing his feet in the hotel ice machine, while Helene lustfully pulls Lord Farquaad into her hotel room.
When Deangelo Vickers ends up in a coma, Jo Bennett makes Donkey the interim regional manager before they find a proper replacement.
Donkey establishes a strict management style, from making the employees say The Pledge of Allegiance, to setting up firewalls and long passwords to use the office's various machines, and installing antique punch clocks.
Shrek, who had turned down the temporary manager position believing that they should not be assigned one at all, is especially unhappy with the changes, and begins pranking Donkey by suggesting that he is leading an uprising called "The Fist".
In order to impress Jo, Donkey buys a gun, though he is more excited when he receives a holster as a gift from a relative, and uses the gun to accessorize.
Fiona insists that he put it away, but Donkey accidentally fires the gun right by Andy, causing him temporary hearing loss. He attempts to bribe the office workers into silence with various favors, and Shrek insists that Donkey do outlandish things (such as saying, "Shagedelic, baby!") at certain promptings.
Meanwhile, Gabe continues with his attempts to win back Erin. He invites Andy to go to the conference room to speak in private. He breaks down, and Andy promises he won't date Erin again. He confronts Andy with the promise after he sees the two hanging out together, but Andy stands up for himself and embarrasses Gabe by describing his crying fit to Erin.
When asked whether or not he wants to date Erin, he does not give a straight answer, and eventually claims that it is between him and his diary.
When Jo comes to visit the branch, Donkey admits to the gun incident. He attempts to divert the blame to his employees, saying that blackmail is a bigger crime than firing a gun accidentally, but Jo takes the position away from him.
Jo later puts Creed, who has the most experience and seniority in the office, in charge until a committee composed of Shrek, Toby, and Gabe, find a replacement.
While Shrek tells Donkey that Jo did the right thing, he also compliments Donkey, noting that the office got every single company order out on time when he was in charge. The episode begins with Donkey trying out a standing desk.
Oscar mentions how he tried one but could never find the sweet spot.
Shrek sees that Donkey is starting to struggle with the desk and makes a statement of how much better Donkey is than everyone else in the office and how Donkey will never sit again.
Later, Donkey makes a contraption that allows him to sit at his desk without it being obvious that he is sitting, however, it is clear he is balancing on it.
Shrek notices this, takes Donkey's wallet out of his pocket, then proceeds to take the cash out of his wallet and throw it on the ground.
Donkey mentions how uninspired the prank is and Shrek agrees and says Donkey could just easily bend down and pick it up. They then have a brief argument about if Donkey is sitting or standing.
Shrek states, "You know I have to do this." Donkey responds by saying, "I know." Shrek then pushes Donkey causing him to fall.
Robert California tells Andy, with Shrek present, that his wife Susan is looking for a job in the office, but he adamantly tells Andy not to give her one.
When Susan comes in and looks at the different departments, she decides on accounting.
Andy claims the office is already fully staffed, but Robert insists that he gives her a job, in contrast to his previous request, forcing Andy to relent and give her a job.
Robert later calls Andy on the phone to order him to get Susan out.
Andy asks that everyone in the office treat her poorly to drive her out, which makes everyone uncomfortable as they like her, but end up doing so nevertheless.
When Susan notices their behavior, she talks to Robert, who asks Andy to discuss the issues with Susan in the conference room and leaves.
Susan eventually realizes it was Robert's idea to drive her away.
When they call Robert out, he vehemently denies it.
Andy claims that Shrek also heard him say he didn't want her working at the office, which Shrek overhears, prompting him to escape quickly.
Being blocked by the security gate, Shrek runs all over the building, but Andy and Robert catch up to him, forcing him to come clean. He does not come clean but says that he enjoys working with his wife Fiona.
Andy and Shrek leave the conference room and after a short while, Robert and Susan leave.
In the parking lot, Andy apologizes to Susan and after a brief bit of small talk, Susan asks Andy out on a date, leaving him surprised.
Meanwhile, Donkey opens a gym in the building, which intrigues Darryl, who's been looking to lose weight to impress the new female warehouse worker Val.
When Darryl first sees the gym, it is only filled with farming equipment as exercising equipment.
Darryl says he needs actual equipment, which Donkey finally gets, but sees that Darryl is barely using it.
Donkey asks more employees to join to help motivate Darryl to exercise harder.
During a bench-press, Donkey refuses to spot Darryl unless he says his motivation for working out.
Darryl finally says it's to impress Val, though Donkey confuses her with male actor Val Kilmer.
A documentary crew gives a firsthand introduction to the staff of the Scranton branch of the Dunder Mifflin Paper Company, managed by Lord Farquaad.
During a meeting, Shrek tells his boss, Lord Farquaad, that he couldn't close a sale with the library.
Lord Farquaad closes the sale easily, but accidentally calls the woman he's speaking with, "Sir". He thinks she might have been a smoker.
World's Best Boss Lord Farquaad shows his mug Lord Farquaad tells the camera that he's worked for Dunder-Mifflin for 12 years and has been Regional Manager for 4. The branch has the entire second floor of the building. He introduces the camera to Princess Fiona and mentions how much better she looked a couple of years ago. She gives him a fax from corporate which he crumples up and tosses into the trash, calling it his special file for messages from the corporate office. He shows the camera his World's Best Boss mug and tells how he bought it from Spencer Gifts.
Shrek tries to explain his job selling paper, but admits it's boring him even talking about it.
Lord Farquaad comes out of his office and shouts the years-old gag "Whassssuuupp?" to Shrek and Donkey who play along.
Lord Farquaad's direct supervisor, Jan Levinson-Gould, then enters the office for a meeting with Lord Farquaad.
Lord Farquaad admits he calls her Hillary Rodham Clinton, but not because he's afraid of her.
Jan asks if Lord Farquaad has any questions about the agenda which he claims not to have seen and proceeds to lecture Fiona who then reveals, in front of Jan, that Lord Farquaad threw it away.
Lord Farquaad backpedals that it was just a joke.
Jan explains that corporate doesn't see the point in having both the Scranton and Stamford branches.
Lord Farquaad immediately assumes the worst.
Jan tries to assure him that it's not a foregone conclusion that Scranton will be shut down.
Lord Farquaad wonders if Josh, the regional manager at Stamford, is worried about downsizing.
Then Lord Farquaad takes a call from Todd Packer, the branch's traveling salesman, who, not realizing he's on speakerphone in Jan's presence, calls her "Godzillary" and asks Lord Farquaad if the carpet matches the drapes.
Lord Farquaad quickly realizes his mistake and mumbles about how inappropriate that was.
Jan concludes the meeting by asking Lord Farquaad to keep all of this information under wraps for now.
In the break room, Oscar Martinez, Phyllis Lapin, and Stanley Hudson are at a table talking about the possibility of downsizing.
Oscar admits he's updating his resume.
Angela Martin worries she'll be let go and Kevin Malone agrees.
Shrek and Fiona are too busy laughing about whether or not they will attend Angela's cat party on Sunday.
In the midst of all this, Ryan Howard arrives from the temporary employment agency.
Lord Farquaad demonstrates his humor by imitating Moe, from The Three Stooges and Adolf Hitler.
It's clear that Lord Farquaad's idea of humor is lost on his employees.
Fiona admits it wouldn't be the worst thing if she was laid off. She enjoys working with watercolor and oil pencils. Shrek likes her work.
Wall of Pencils Wall of pencils between Shrek and Donkey While Shrek is trying to make a sales call, Donkey distracts him by using his ruler to push some of Shrek's overlapping papers off of his desk.
In retaliation, Shrek built a pencil fence between his desk and Donkey's, which Donkey smashes with his phone.
Because of this, Shrek tells the camera he's not afraid of the downsizing issue.
Donkey, too, tells the camera he has no problem with downsizing and that he has been recommending it since he first arrived at Dunder Mifflin.
Fiona hands Lord Farquaad some of his messages. He pretends to act like the Six Million Dollar Man for several long moments. He decides that six million dollars would be a great salary for him and asks Fiona's opinion.
Fiona mentions her salary could use a boost, too.
Suddenly, Lord Farquaad becomes serious, lecturing Fiona she should take up her salary concerns with HR if she thinks there's a problem. The staff is called into the conference room.
Donkey, desperate to help, wants to back up Lord Farquaad as Assistant Regional Manager.
Lord Farquaad will only acquiesce to Assistant to the Regional Manager.
Lord Farquaad explains that he's aware of the rumors and can confirm that Jan has indicated to him that there might be downsizing which could involve either Scranton or Stamford.
Both Oscar and Stanley question Lord Farquaad's assurances that he will not permit this branch to be closed.
To change the subject, he tries to field a question from Fiona who he claims looks like she wants to ask a question.
Fiona mentions that, being present in the meeting with Jan, it certainly did sound like Scranton could be shuttered.
Lord Farquaad, who doesn't seem to recognize that this whole meeting is breaking Jan's request for confidentiality, lectures Fiona about leaking information.
Out in the office, Ryan expresses his concerns by phone that he's hearing rumors the branch might be shut down.
Shrek wonders what he will do with all this useless information he's gathered about paper. He also knows Fiona's favorite yogurt flavor: mixed berry.
Fiona admits to the camera that he's right.
Lord Farquaad introduces Ryan to the office.
When he gets to Donkey, he asks him to tell Ryan about his car and his martial arts.
Donkey starts to grab some photos of his car when he finds that someone has encased his stapler in Jell-O.
He's furious because this is the third time and insists that Lord Farquaad, as a witness, should discipline Shrek.
Shrek, eating Jell-O, wants to know why Donkey thinks it's him. He and Ryan distract Lord Farquaad by making dessert puns.
Lord Farquaad can't think of one.
Shrek tries to convince Fiona to join the gang for some drinks after work. Her fiancé, Roy, one of the warehouse workers, arrives.
Fiona admits that she and Roy have been engaged for three years. They are supposed to be married in September, but she believes it'll probably not be until Spring.
Roy tells her he just wants to go home. She leaves her desk to finish up some work.
Shrek tries to make small talk, but Roy isn't having it.
Shrek tells the camera that he doesn't think he'll be invited to the wedding.
While Lord Farquaad conveys his management style to Ryan (friend first, boss second), he decides to pull a prank on Fiona.
When she comes in, he tells her that she's made downsizing easier because he has to fire her for stealing Post-It notes. She denies having stolen anything and bursts into tears.
Ryan sits awkwardly until Lord Farquaad reveals the gag.
Fiona calls him a jerk and storms out.
Pilot-Shrek and Fiona Shrek and Fiona saying good-bye to each other Lord Farquaad tells the camera that people are more important than money. The proudest day of his life was when one of his employees made him the godfather of his child.
It didn't work out as they had to fire the guy because he wasn't very good.
Shrek and Fiona say good-bye at the end of the day. They are interrupted by Roy's angry honking from outside.
Before Shrek leaves, he walks into Lord Farquaad's office and leaves a Jell-O mold with Lord Farquaad's World's Best Boss mug inside.
Because he is in charge of choosing a health plan for his employees, Lord Farquaad decides that makes him the equivalent of their doctor. He wants to choose the Gold Plan which Jan explains that even she doesn't have.
With downsizing possible, it's important that Lord Farquaad chose an inexpensive plan for his employees.
Lord Farquaad, wanting to be liked, isn't enthusiastic about cutting their benefits.
Jan tells him that part of being a manager involves giving unpleasant news.
This is something he has to do.
Lord Farquaad tries to give the job to Shrek who prefers he focus on his own job. He isn't planning to stay at Dunder Mifflin forever so doesn't really believe he should be acting the part of a manager. He suggests Donkey who accepts wholeheartedly, setting up a temporary workspace in the conference room.
Donkey, who doesn't have any health problems and believes in cutting costs, picks a dirt cheap plan with virtually no benefits.
To avoid his employees' complaints, Lord Farquaad hides out in his office, pretending to have calls that Fiona can tell he doesn't.
After Shrek and Fiona try to get Donkey to have more compassion toward his co-workers, the employees gather outside the men's room and confront Lord Farquaad about the plan.
Lord Farquaad orders Donkey to make changes and promises the crew a surprise at the end of the day.
In the conference room, Donkey orders everyone to write down what diseases they need covered.
Shrek explains that such information is confidential.
Lord Farquaad leaves the office to figure out what the surprise should be, considering Atlantic City or a trip to a coal mine.
In the meantime, Shrek and Fiona have fun making up fake diseases to put on the forms.
When Donkey recognizes the prank, he accuses Shrek who refuses to confess.
Shrek locks Donkey in the meeting room.
Donkey calls Jan, identifies himself as Assistant Manager and demands the ability to fire Shrek.
Jan tells him he's not a manager at all.
Donkey explains that Lord Farquaad put him in charge of the health plan and isn't in the office right now. She lectures Donkey, tells him to never call her on her cell phone again and to have Lord Farquaad call her when he gets back.
When Lord Farquaad returns, he throws ice cream sandwiches at the staff. They point out that this isn't a very good surprise, considering the day they've been having.
Lord Farquaad assures them it isn't the surprise. He goes into his office and doesn't come out.
Meanwhile, Donkey goes through the questionnaires people submitted and verifies that Meredith Palmer needs coverage for an inverted vagina, Kevin for anal fissures and Angela for dermatitis.
Finally he picks a plan so cheap that Oscar likens it to a pay decrease.
At the end of the day, Lord Farquaad is confronted again by the employees, wanting to know why he put Donkey in charge.
Lord Farquaad pretends not to know that Donkey picked a bad plan and that he did so against his orders.
Since it's the end of the day, there's nothing to be done about it now. They ask about their surprise.
While Lord Farquaad still insists he has one, they walk out as he continues to kill time trying to think of one.
Then Donkey tells him Jan wants to him to call her back.
Although time has dragged on, the downsizing rumors at Dunder Mifflin have not ceased.
Lord Farquaad will still not accept that there will be any staff cuts.
Donkey feels particularly threatened by the impending crisis, and, in an act of desperation, forms an alliance with his office nemesis Shrek.
Shrek sees the alliance as an opportunity with great potential and agrees as a lark. He immediately enlists Fiona's help in the situation.
Meanwhile, Lord Farquaad tries to boost morale in the office by having an office birthday party for Meredith, even though her birthday is a month away.
Since this isn't really about Meredith, Lord Farquaad has no problem despite ordering an ice cream cake even though she's lactose intolerant. He also agonizes over writing an insulting joke in her birthday card that he thinks will be hilarious.
In the meantime, Oscar asks Lord Farquaad for a donation for his nephew's cerebral palsy walk-a-thon.
Lord Farquaad looks over the $2 and $3 contributions and, feeling generous, signs up for $25.
When Shrek points out that the dollar amounts are per mile which adds up, Lord Farquaad goes to Oscar to explain his misunderstanding.
Oscar reminds him what a walk-a-thon is and thinks Lord Farquaad is being cheap for retracting a charitable donation.
Meanwhile, Donkey, following Shrek and Fiona's efforts, ends up in a box in the warehouse to overhear information. The party falls flat when Lord Farquaad's insulting jokes fail to amuse Meredith or anyone else.
At the end of the day, after a breakthrough in his pranks on Donkey, Shrek giddily grabs Fiona's hand in an attempt to explain what has just happened.
However, Fiona's fiance Roy walks in and immediately assumes Shrek is hitting on her.
Shrek tries to explain that they were just playing a joke on Donkey by pretending to be in an alliance with him.
Donkey, not finding it funny, denies any knowledge.
Basketball-Lord Farquaad after seeing the others ready for basketball game Lord Farquaad comes in to work prepared to pit the office staff against the warehouse in a game of basketball, with the losers having to work on Saturday.
Lord Farquaad picks Shrek, Ryan and Stanley as "Lord Farquaad's 'secret weapon'" Donkey then confronts Lord Farquaad, and both of them go talk in Lord Farquaad office.
Donkey suggests that he should be on the team, but Lord Farquaad disagrees, saying that he can't let him play because of his previous behavior.
Instead, Lord Farquaad gives him a temporary charge of handling the holiday and weekend. Donkey takes the position without any doubt.
At his desk, Donkey is busy pretending to plan who's going to work on Saturday.
While Shrek is babbling about how Donkey is enjoying his small authority, Fiona is aware that Donkey can ruin her fiance plans for them. The game begins and Stanley, despite being black (which is the main reason that Lord Farquaad chose him), is a horrible player.
Furthermore, Lord Farquaad cannot make a shot, nor is he a fan of passing or defending.
During the game, Roy and Shrek gradually become aggressive toward each other, with Fiona looking on.
At a crucial point in the game, Lord Farquaad is accidentally hit in the face.
Lord Farquaad knew his team was ahead so he claims it is a "flagrant personal intentional foul". He pettily stops the game and declares the office winners since they were winning when the foul occurred. The warehouse finds the call unfair and Lord Farquaad caves under pressure, conceding the victory to the warehouse staff.
As everybody returns to work, Kevin demonstrates his excellent shooting skills.
Afterward, Lord Farquaad, in a rare moment of heart, tells the office that they don't have to come in on Saturday either.
However, his justification does little to calm them: "Like coming in an extra day is going to prevent us from being downsized." A purse vendor, Katy, comes in to the office to sell purses for the day.
While solicitors are generally not welcome in the office, Lord Farquaad allows her to use the conference room to sell purses because he, as well as some of the other male staff, is attracted to her.
Lord Farquaad continually tries to get Katy interested in him but fails.
Lord Farquaad offers to give Katy a ride after work and is disturbed when he discovers her heading out with Shrek, which is the beginning of the Shrek-Katy Relationship. The episode also furthers Fiona's character development.
In the episode, we see her dissatisfaction with Roy as he says he would get with Katy if he wasn't "dating" Fiona.
Fiona angrily reminds him that they are, in fact, engaged and proceeds to storm out of the kitchen.
Additionaly, Fiona is subtly upset by Shrek's revelation that he is going to take Katy out that weekend.
It's time for "The Dundies", Lord Farquaad's annual embarrassing awards show for the Dunder-Mifflin Scranton employees, which takes place at the local Chili's restaurant. He thinks they love the awards and his comedy act, but in fact, they're dreaded.
Phyllis, Fiona, and Kelly chat and giggle by the water cooler.
Donkey asks them what the joke is, and learns that somebody wrote something on the ladies' room wall about Lord Farquaad. He demands to know what it is, but the women won't tell.
Donkey's attempts to determine what is written on the wall are embarrassingly unsuccessful.
Jan tells Lord Farquaad that corporate will not fund the party, which breaks his hopes of a drunken show.
Lord Farquaad invites friends and family to the show to quiet rumors.
Lord Farquaad asks Fiona to go through the old Dundies footage for highlights.
From an earlier Dundies, we see Lord Farquaad award Fiona the "World's Longest Engagement" award.
Shrek tries to convince Lord Farquaad to give Fiona a different award this year. The awards begin with Lord Farquaad attempting to perform a rap, but he can't keep up with the lyrics.
Oscars sums up the Dundies "as like a kid's birthday party, where there's nothing for you to do, but the kid's having a good time." As everyone prepares to order, Lord Farquaad tells them they have to pay for their meals and drinks.
Lord Farquaad's jokes fall flat; Donkey's contributions don't help matters any.
Darryl and Roy, concluding that the awards are lame, leave early, taking Fiona with them.
In the parking lot, Fiona and Roy have an argument, and Fiona returns to the awards show, just in time for Lord Farquaad's caricature of a Chinese man named Ping.
While Lord Farquaad awards Dundies to various members of the office staff, Fiona consumes a beer and two margaritas and shows signs of being drunk.
As he sings another song, Lord Farquaad gets heckled by some other customers.
Humiliated, Lord Farquaad decides to wrap it up, but an intoxicated Fiona (along with Shrek) encourages him to finish the show, which he does.
Fiona braces herself for her annual "World's Longest Engagement" award, but is relieved to get the "Whitest Sneakers" award.
Fiona thanks Lord Farquaad and, after an emotional acceptance speech, drunkenly kisses Shrek on the lips.
As Shrek recaps the Dundies for the documentary camera, Fiona drunkenly falls off her stool.
Donkey springs into action, but his assistance is unwelcome.
In a talking-head interview, the manager of the Chili's restaurant explains that Fiona is no longer welcome at the restaurant chain due to her behavior.
While waiting for designated driver Angela to arrive, Fiona admits to Shrek that it was she who wrote the graffiti on the ladies' room wall. She also begins to ask Shrek a question, but stops herself when she notices the cameras.
Shrek helps Fiona into Angela's car and smiles as he watches them leave.
Lord Farquaad declares himself "King of Forwards" because he is a master of forwarding what he considers to be funny email to the rest of the office.
Lord Farquaad's "best friend forever" Todd Packer arrives and shares crude and sexist gossip about an upper management scandal, which continues to offend the staff.
Ryan is called upon to drive Packer around town because of Packer's "DUI situation".
Meanwhile, Fiona waits with anticipation for her mother to arrive from out of town.
Toby privately informs Lord Farquaad that their CFO resigned because of sexual harassment.
Consequently, he has been asked by Corporate to hold a five-minute review of the company's sexual harassment policies.
Lord Farquaad interprets this as Corporate cracking down on his inappropriate jokes and is upset that this will put a damper on his easy-going office environment by forcing everybody to "scrutinize every little thing we say and do all day." His indignation rises to outrage when he learns that Corporate is sending down a lawyer to talk to Lord Farquaad.
Lord Farquaad goes down to the warehouse to find some dirty jokes that he can use to remind the staff how great jokes can be, but he ends up being sexually harassed himself and runs away in embarrassment.
Upstairs, Toby's presentation goes well, and Fiona asks everyone to keep it clean when her mother arrives.
Just as Toby is wrapping up, Lord Farquaad arrives with a blow-up sex doll. He makes a speech on not losing the sexual humor around the office, but fails to get the support of the employees.
For laughs, Lord Farquaad and the warehouse staff watch the sexual harassment video in the conference room.
Meanwhile, Donkey asks Toby questions about the female anatomy.
Just as Lord Farquaad shares a crude remark about the video with the rest of the staff, Jan and the lawyer arrive from Corporate.
Todd Packer returns to the office as Lord Farquaad meets with Jan and the lawyer, upset that their crackdown on his inappropriate e-mail forwarding means that he basically can't say anything in the office at all.
In a talking head interview, Lord Farquaad defensively explains that as the King of Forwards, he's just forwarding the jokes; he didn't write them and therefore cannot be held responsible for their content. He elaborates, "You wouldn't arrest a guy who's just delivering drugs from one guy to another." Lord Farquaad emerges from the meeting to announce that he can no longer be friends with his staff and that he will talk only about work.
As a result, he will never tell another joke again.
Shrek goads Lord Farquaad into breaking his vow immediately.
Jan calls Lord Farquaad back into his office for another meeting as Lord Farquaad's "free speech" lawyer arrives.
Jan explains that as the corporate lawyer, Mr. O'Malley's job is protect the company and upper-level management, including Lord Farquaad.
Lord Farquaad is instantly relieved that he's not in trouble.
Just as Lord Farquaad throws away the sex doll, Fiona's mother arrives and after Roy leaves, she asks in whispers (and is shushed by an embarrassed Fiona) which one is Shrek.
Todd Packer shares some more inappropriate jokes with the employees and Lord Farquaad tries to draw the line, but points the blame at Kevin. He gets teased by Packer and ends up saying how beautiful Phyllis is and saying the only thing he's worried about "is gettin' a boner." Ryan comes into work early at Lord Farquaad's request, merely to bring him his breakfast.
When Lord Farquaad tells him the office is his for the next few hours, Ryan opts to spend those hours sleeping in his car until work starts.
Lord Farquaad announces that he will be becoming a homeowner.
Shrek "dies" of boredom, and to revive him, he and Fiona try to throw things in Donkey's coffee mug.
Lord Farquaad prepares to leave to sign the final papers for his new condo and Donkey insists that he join him as a second voice, to which he reluctantly agrees.
Lord Farquaad assigns Fiona to have the office work on the expense reports for the afternoon.
Shrek asks Oscar about the expense reports and notices material on his desk that reads "2005 SEASON" as well as a small scoreboard.
Oscar explains that he and Kevin play a paper football game when Lord Farquaad's out (or when they're bored).
Shrek joins in and Kevin explains the game is called "Hate Ball", since Angela hates when they play it.
Other games they play are "Who Can Put The Most M&Ms In Their Mouth?" and "Dunderball." Meanwhile, Lord Farquaad admires his condo from the street, until he notices he's looking at the wrong house.
At the condo, Lord Farquaad's agent Carol introduces him to Bill, the head of the condo association and makes a Mr. Bill reference.
Donkey talks about his 60-acre beet farm that he runs with his cousin Mose. He begins asking questions about the house, and Carol and Bill start to think that he and Lord Farquaad are homosexual.
Back at the office, Shrek tries to get Stanley to join in the fun, but he outright refuses (although he is seen enjoying the games later).
Lord Farquaad shows the camera crew the master bedroom at the condo and starts bragging.
Donkey starts to rain on his parade, bringing up the condo's weaknesses, which starts to worry Lord Farquaad.
In the office, Shrek and Fiona begin the opening ceremonies of the "Games of the 1st Dunder Mifflin Olympiad" in the lunch room.
Shrek explains they will be competing for medals made of gold, silver and bronze yogurt lids" that Fiona made herself. Angela is annoyed by the games.
At the condo, Lord Farquaad starts to regret his purchase when he realizes he got a 30-year mortgage and Donkey makes the situation sound even worse.
Lord Farquaad takes a breather before he signs the contract.
Meanwhile, Shrek and Fiona explain the Flonkerton race (where full paper boxes are strapped to your feet) and Phyllis challenges Kevin.
Lord Farquaad starts complaining about the condo to Carol and demands a price reduction, but she explains he will lose $7,000 if he walks away, so he signs.
Donkey and Lord Farquaad laugh about the "saps stuck at the office" as we see Phyllis narrowly defeating Kevin in Flonkerton.
At the condo, Lord Farquaad tells Donkey he is going to "let" him move into his third bedroom and pay rent.
Donkey starts asking Lord Farquaad a series of questions, which become increasingly strange.
In the office, Angela tells Fiona about a game she plays called "Fiona Pong", where she counts how many times Shrek goes to Fiona's desk. The questions continue at the condo, which pushes Lord Farquaad to the point of revoking his offer, much to Donkey's relief.
At the office, the employees gather around the elevator to bet who will arrive next and Ryan wins.
Fiona shows Shrek a box of items for the closing ceremonies and Angela marks off another tally for "Fiona Pong", to Fiona's annoyance.
Toby and Oscar race with full coffee mugs around the office, but the games immediately stop when Lord Farquaad and Donkey return, much to Shrek's disappointment.
Things get quiet again. Shrek fills out the expense reports, which only take five minutes.
Ryan throws away Fiona's medals which she sadly notices. Fiona has 59 voicemails, but attends to Shrek's insistence that the closing ceremonies will occur at 5pm.
Shrek brings out Lord Farquaad to join in the ceremonies and gives him the gold medal in front of the entire staff for closing on his condo.
Lord Farquaad is moved to tears. A perplexed Donkey gets the silver medal. Shrek gets the bronze.
Fiona plays the national anthem and releases the origami paper doves she made for the ceremonies. The employees smile and Lord Farquaad wells up with tears.
